
#  Biweekly



## Date and time

May 21, 2021 10 am CET.



## Participants
- Thomas Holm Rod
- Danielle Adonis
- Alexandre Stefanov
- Kareem Galal
- Aljosa Hafnar
- Guiseppe La Rocca
- Marius Retegan
- Miguel Gonzalez
- Stella d'Ambrumenil
- Uwe Konrad


## Agenda

1. Review of tasks and dashboard: https://github.com/panosc-eu/panosc/wiki/Work-Packages-dashboards
2. Report of commitments for each partner to each work package
3. PaNOSC data HERCULES course
4. D1.7 status update
5. Other technical updates
6. Other ExPaNDS updates
7. Other PaNOSC updates
8. 8. AoB



## Minutes





### Tasks & GitHub issues

- [ ] Doru setup meeting with Peter, Kareem, T.ESS, Doru, Stella, Florian - GDPR + Risks - after the technical meeting - ??? 
- [ ] Thibaud, Florian, and Teodor to review risks (everybody feel free to do the same)
    Deadline: 2 weeks - postponed to next meeting
    
- [ ] Thibaud & Nazaré. Collect training material from ExPaNDS partners. 
    Quite busy with mid term review. Answers from survey. Seems to be good approach with pan-learning + catalogue
    Stella, Doru joined FAIRsFAIR workshop on meta-data for training. 
- [ ] Peter (with Alex) to explain how to setup and run a local instance of pan-learning.org
- [ ] Guidelines on GitHub for how to contribute. Use Thomas', XFEL, approach as starting point and modularize. - asignee Peter ??
- [ ] Upload Jupyter integration document to github - assignee: Peter
- [ ] Umbrella ID issues (Kareem , Teodor) IN PROGRESS
- [ ] To be discussed about possibility o using Slack plugin to replace the chat tools. 
    Doru will have a look (postponed to next meeting)

- [ ] Define task to evaluate Slack plugin on test-server (postponed to next meeting)

### Report of commitments

A report has been written that describes the commitment from each partner to each WP. The report can be found here: https://docs.google.com/document/d/1PBgnw8kKSLn5kAh6nEd1UDuDo-AQdHWr/edit?usp=sharing&ouid=107769201997330831191&rtpof=true&sd=true

Andy: "_We will distribute this document to the Executive Board as input at our
next EB meeting at the end of the month. We will ask them to address the
issues (in red) and ensure the others (in orange and green) continue to
get support._

_Please take a look and correct any information you notice is wrong or
has changed since it was entered. We will distribute the document at the
end of this week._

_We propose to keep on updating this document until the end of the project._
"



#### KPIs
Stella d'Ambrumenil shared following docs:

https://docs.google.com/document/d/1ztP5un2fTJQPkWaf6RFiIqy0GrczqdCs/edit?ts=609a1f6a#

https://docs.google.com/document/d/1HFkCWqXuSTPNBiOdXTSuIegm_oYt8uXe/edit#



### Update on Task 8.x Course on Data stewardship 
- No update. Doru was absent.


### Other technical updates


### ExPaNDS updates
-busy preparing for mid term review and dry runs.
-some issues with delivery of training material from facilities, difficulty especially with photon scattering training materials. Marius would like to get training material for Hercules course.
- Stella to share overview of courses available in photon library e.g. SAXS – mainly presentations. 
- Before end of May, provide solution for how teachers can upload own modules


### PaNOSC updates


#### Milestone report
Milestone report shared – provides good overview of progress.


### AoB

 - HORIZON Europe call related to WP5 – where training activities also mentioned. Thomas Rod will keep group updated. 
 - 
 - Some updates and changes to course log-in pan-learning.org. Should try to streamline page and remove Wordpress frontpage.


## Completed tasks
- [x] Oliver to clone TP software to new github org - code available, multiple issues submitted.
- [x] Thomas to reach out to Sophie and Thibaud on ExPANDS status
- [x] Illumidesk - JupyterHub - auto grading to be uploaded to GitHub - defining a tehnical support role for content providers becomes critical

