

# Agenda

1. Tasks
1. TtT workshop
1. GitHub project for WP8
3. Updates from PaNOSC
4. Updates from ExPaNDS
5. Technical updates
6. AoB

# Summary

## Tasks

- [ ] Thomas & Danielle* Doodling design workshop
Scheduled for next week. However, should we cancel?

- [ ] *Peter & Thomas* Alternative cost calculation based on e-neutrons.org usage  Deadline: 1st week in January 
Done to best effort. Need to also do it for computing capacity.  -> teodor to contact peter

- [ ] *Thomas* to get somebody to review if pan-learning.org is GDPR compliant (*Deadline: ASAP*)
Haven't heard back from relevant person at ESS. Florian will contact ELI staff. 

- [ ] Thibaud & Nazaré. Collect training material from ExPaNDS partners. 
Will inform partners at next week. Survey will be sent on Monday.

## TtT workshop
- Participation from all panosc partners
- ISIS and HZDR from expands

Trainer has 8-9 meetings scheduled between the two parts of the workshop

## GitHub Project for WP8


## Jupyter integration (MS8.3)
Teodor written report for jupyter integration milestone. What do we require in order to check it as done?

_Existing functionality at e-neutrons.org accessible from pan-learning.org. Continuous integration testing up running at ESS. Implemented solution can handle 50 simultaneous users without lagging._




## Updates from PaNOSC
Registration of pan-learning.org as EOSC service in progress. 

ELI staffing plans?

Stella has organized risks in [this spreadsheet](https://docs.google.com/spreadsheets/d/1uiPD45n7QO1c1AtH6jfPY_oGyPchwx3JPpVinNlyUQs/edit#gid=502565120) 
and tentatively scored eash risk.


## Updates from ExPaNDS

## Technical updates


## AoB


Actions
=======
- [x] Thomas & Danielle* Doodling design workshop
- [ ] *Peter & Thomas* Alternative cost calculation based on e-neutrons.org usage  Deadline: 1st week in January 
- [ ] *Thomas* to get somebody to review if pan-learning.org is GDPR compliant (*Deadline: ASAP*)
- [ ] *Peter* Make examples available in pan-learning.org library (*Deadline Oct 7 9 am* - if possible)~
- [ ] Thibaud & Nazaré. Collect training material from ExPaNDS partners. 

### Completed
- [ ] ~*All* Review tasks on ![mind map](https://github.com/panosc-eu/panosc/blob/master/Work%20Packages/WP8%20User%20Training/MeetingMinutes/snippets/Requirements.pdf)~
- [ ] ~*Everybody* Come up with design suggestions for pan-learning.org~ 
- [ ] ~*All* Review tasks on ![mind map](https://github.com/panosc-eu/panosc/blob/master/Work%20Packages/WP8%20User%20Training/MeetingMinutes/snippets/Requirements.pdf)~
- [ ] ~*Peter* Make examples available in pan-learning.org library (*Deadline Oct 7 9 am* - if possible)~
- [ ] ~*Everybody* Come up with design suggestions for pan-learning.org~
- [ ] ~*Teodor* Come up with name for design task~
- [x] *Thomas* Text for circulation TtT
- [x] *Thomas* Requirements for participants in workshop.
- [ ] ~~*Florian* Write down requirements for participants in TtT.~~
- [x] *Florian* Discussion of requirements, sustainability, cost of training portal and its component- [x] *Thomas* Google doc -> Vincent
- [x] *Nazaré* reach out to LEAPS 
- [x] *Thibaud and Thomas* come up with suggestions for joint KPIs and circulate for review
- [x] *Thomas* Move user stories to google docs
- [x] *Thibaud* to include courses already in github in his list of courses
- [x] *Nicoletta* check up on calendar on panosc.eu
- [x] *Everybody* use cases to Andy for annual meeting (partner by partner)
- [x] *Thomas* discuss time and number of participants for online course
- [x] *Kareem & Peter* Start testing AAI for pan-learning.org. Setup work meeting in week 44.
- [x] Thomas reach out to LENS training working group
- [x] Florian reach out to laserlab
- [x] Thibaud & Thomas. Draft slides for *Progress* section. Deadline 2020-10-16 (next meeting)
- [x] Florian. Draft slides for *Dependencies on other work packages* section. Deadline 2020-10-16 (next meeting)
- [x] *Florian & Thibaud* collate material for presentation
- [x] *Peter & Thomas* prepare and do the presentation. -> Nazaré & Thomas
- [ ] *Thomas* ~~to discuss with Victor if he would like to present about the usage of pan-learning.org for an actual course.~~
- [x] *Thomas* Circulate draft for workshop
- [x] *Peter* invite for weekly technical meetings
- [x] *Thomas* send material for presentation to Florian
- [x] *Thomas* send material for presentation to Florian- [x] *Peter* Ensure pan-learning.org is GDPR compliant (*Deadline: ASAP*)- [x] *Peter* invite for weekly technical meetings
- [x] *Everybody* review letter drafted by Florian and Thomas (*Deadline Oct 6*). Follow-up discussion on Oct 7 meeting
- [x] *Thomas & Peter* Investigate how ExPaNDS can get access to upload their own material to the library and develop courses
- [x] *Peter* invite Oliver to technical meetings
- [x] *Everybody* Have a look at the [ELIXIR e-learning platform](https://elixir.mf.uni-lj.si)
- [x] Thibaud & Thomas. Realign joint Gantt chart due to extension of ExPaNDS duration. Deadline 2020-10-16 (next meeting
- [x] Thomas. Send learning-objectives-letter to wp leaders in panosc. Deadline 2020-10-07




