# PaNOSC WP 7 meeting - 09/12/2020

### Participants
Sandor Brockhauser (EuXFEL), Ornela de Giacomo (CERIC-ERIC), Rudolf Dimper (ESRF) Florian Gliksohn (ELI), Thomas Holm  (ESS), Teodor Ivanoaica (ELI), Yuri Kiryenko (XFEL), Angela Zennaro (CERIC-ERIC), Roberto Pugliese (CERIC-ERIC)

### Agenda
#### 1.	Cost collection: report on progress/issues by partners
#### 2.	Report on non-financial aspects of sustainability: stakeholders consultation with PaNOSC WP leaders: Feedback from WP8

### Minutes

#### 1.	Cost collection: report on progress/issues by partners
Ornela shows the cost collection files of ESS and ELI, explaining that apparently there have not used the same approach, so she proposes to discuss with all the partners and agree on a common approach to ensure in the end of the process it will be possible to consolidate the costs. Since one of the main issues seem to be the interpretation of the recurrent costs both in the 5 years of setup and in the following operation period, Ornela asks ESRF If they can clarify this aspect, since the current representation of costs was proposed by them in alternative to the first template proposed.
Rudolf explains the categorisation they proposed is the one adopted at ESRF, and foresees a division in personnel cost, capital costs (HW+SW in this case) and recurrent costs, that are those that do not fit in the previous categories and aren’t inventorised, corresponding to operation costs.  He explained that since most of the IT goods are depreciated by convention in 5 years, hence the two blocks Initial setup cost (5 years) and yearly cost. 
Rudolf highlights two additional points relate to the cost collection. First, that the template does not take into account all the factors that contribute to the cost, therefore what we are representing there is not a full cost model (e.g missing overheads). The second issue regards the EOSC related costs, that are shown separated. Some of the partners consider these costs as their investment in PaNOSC. We must be careful and explain in a note what every partner is considering there, since there is a high risk of ending up considering very different costs. 
Thomas asks why are we considering the costs not related to the EOSC, since the project is mainly about the sustainability of the services for the EOSC. Ornela answers that it was decided at the beginning of the task to deliver an estimation of the total costs involved in providing FAIR data and services, not only in the connection to the EOSC. She explains it is important to raise awareness on these costs, specially for the managers of research infrastructures, since they are not negligible. It was also decided that this exercise could help other institutions less advanced in providing FAIR data, to estimate the costs involved in the process.  Rudolph adds that it´s important to calculate the costs related to the managing of data in all the labs, as they are expected to increase during and after Panosc.
Sandor highlights that it is not enough to consider the EOSC associated costs as the ones incurred during PaNOSC, since there will also be costs related to the operation and maintenance after the duration of the project. He adds that for example in WP4, they are working on examples/use cases as pilots of the PaNOSC project, but that the solutions developed will need to be extended to the rest of the data and services and this is not covered by PaNOSC. Regarding this topic, Ornela de Giacomo states that in any case it needs to be shown as clear as possible to the facilities managers, also the costs beyond PaNOSC and that is the reason why we have to calculate them, also to define the sustainability of PanOSC outputs in the future. Sandor agrees and also thinks that those costs will have a bump at certain point due to the extension of the PaNOSC developments to all the data and services, and a more or less constant behaviour after this phase, corresponding to the operation and maintenance.
Rudolf also notices that in one of the tables, there are FTEs expressed instead of costs in K€ as proposed in the header. He invites all the partners to fill in the templates in a way to facilitate the work of ELI and CERIC that will work in the consolidation afterwards.  Ornela proposes to include a column for FTEs in the template. Florian supports this and proposed to change FTEs with  persons/year. He explains it is important to have this information in order to be able to understand if the salary difference is one of the aspects introducing variability in the costs between PaNOSC partners.
Ornela states that the cost collection sheets of most of the facilities are missing. She will update the template and make it available in Github.  Rudolf explains they have a preliminary version that he can share immediately. He will review the current version by the end of the week.
Ornela asks for the partner’s availability on the 23rd of December for the next meeting. Since some of them will not have completed the cost collection by then, the partners agree that next meeting will be held in January. Florian and Ornela will have a separate meeting for the consolidation of the data and the data sheets template before Christmas. 

#### 2.	Report on non-financial aspects of sustainability: stakeholders consultation with PaNOSC WP leaders: Feedback from WP8
Florian updates the partners on a discussion ELI had within WP 8 on sustainability aspects involving both costs to be sustained but also questions to be addressed. He explains they are defining with Thomas some fundamental questions related to sustainability and he proposes to address them in WP7, involving also Wp 4 and Wp1 of ExPaNDS. Ornela explain that this exactly what was discussed and agreed upon in the previous WP7 meeting as one of the activities to be carried out in parallel to the cost collection and adds that they have already started to work on this with Angela, preparing the interview to the WP leaders. Florian then proposes to send the questions they will define with Thomas to Ornela, to help them with the interview for WP8.
Thomas explains that they have briefly discussed the sustainability of PaNOSC developments in LENS and that they’ve agreed that one representative of LENS will be present during the LEAPS IT meetings, to coordinate.
Rudolf states that he will try to promote the connect with LENS in LEAPS. Ornela says that she expects the report will help to focus on the issues to be addressed and possible solutions, for example the ones already adopted by the other cluster projects, to facilitate the discussion at the level of LEAPS and LENS.

### Actions
- [ ]	T 7.2 Update the cost collection template (Ornela)
- [ ]	T 7.2 Complete the cost collection and send it to Ornela, possibly within December 20th (all)
- [ ]	T 7.2 Meeting for the consolidation of the cost data before Christmas (Florian and Ornela) 
- [ ]	T 7.4 Develop the questionnaires for work package leaders (Ornela and Angela)
- [ ]	T 7.4 Contact ExPaNDS to involve them in task 7.4 (Ornela)
- [ ]	T 7.4 Send the questions regarding sustainability for WP8 to Ornela (Florian and Thomas)
