# PaNOSC WP 7 meeting - 27/01/2021

### Participants
Jordi Bodera Sempere (ESRF), Sandor Brockhauser (EuXFEL), Ornela de Giacomo (CERIC-ERIC), Rudolf Dimper (ESRF), Florian Gliksohn (ELI), Thomas Holm (ESS), Teodor Ivanoaica (ELI), Dario Roccella (CERIC-ERIC), Angela Zennaro (CERIC-ERIC)

### Agenda

#### 1. T 7.3 Collection on feedback for business models and next steps
#### 2. T 7.2 Cost collection: report on progress/issues by partners

### Minutes

#### 1. T 7.3 Collection on feedback for business models and next steps

T 7.3 Collection of feedback on business models and next steps
Angela Zennaro presents the working document on the business models asking the partners to give in the next weeks a feedback on the content. The document, at the moment, presents the following sections: 
•	a description of the methodology according to the Business Model Canvas, 
•	the value propositions based on the outputs of Panosc project defined at the moment, 
•	the beneficiaries of those values with a distinction between customers and consumers, and 
•	the channels through which reach the consumers and customers. 
Angela Zennaro states that it has to be updated according to the interviews with the WP leaders and goes on, briefly explaining each sections. Florian Gliksohn suggests to make a distinction between specific values for users and values related to a general impact, maybe showing also which would be the consequences for users and other beneficiaries to have or not to have available Panosc outputs. Angela Zennnaro agrees and Thomas Holm also suggests to link it with use cases. Jordi Bodera Sempere states the importance to highlight which could be the consequences to not sustain Panosc in the long term and Ornela de Giacomo says that is related to what Florian Gliksohn says, to show what will be loose if Panosc outputs will not last in the long period, e.g if facilities do not maintain their local instances of the Panosc portal, it could be marginalized.
Rudolf Dimper suggests to state in the beginning of the document what exactly is expected as feedback from partners and also the scope of the business models, as a contribution to the sustainability plan. He explains it is not completely clear what level of information needs to be in each document, since they are closely related.  The business model document will provide an overview of the concepts to be developed more in depth in the sustainability plan. Ornela de Giacomo briefly highlights what is the focus of the sustainability plan, such as the future governance, responsibilities and financial engagement by the partners. 

#### 2. T 7.2 Cost collection: report on progress/issues by partners

Ornela de Giacomo states that she received at the moment the costs from 4 partners, still missing ILL and XFEL, and that WP7 should start thinking on proceeding with the deliverable, even if not all of the partners contribute describing their costs. She explains two new risks were added during the last risk assessment with the project management, one being the risk that not all partners deliver the cost sheet. Sandor Brockhauser underlines that the key point is the comparison between the costs of the different partners and that´s the reason why he is finalizing their calculation looking also at the ones sent by the others. Teodor Ivanoaica says that they are finalising some internal checking with some but it´s almost complete and they are just waiting to run some tests to define some of the technical solutions, that will influence the cost. 
Ornela de Giacomo asks to specify, as suggested by Thomas Holm, the approach followed for the calculations and the variables they took into account. Rudolf Dimper asks what we want to achieve with this costs collection, which is the purpose, Florian Gliksohn highlights that we can use it in different ways such as demonstrate how much does it cost for our facility for the sustainability and also for new facilities to know how to approach a similar thing.  
Ornela de Giacomo proposes to have the next meeting in two weeks and to change the day of the week according to Thomas Holm request. The day chosen is Thursday in two weeks, but Ornela de Giacomo will send a doodle to set the date and time of  next meeting since partners have pre-existing commitments in that day.  Ornela de Giacomo will also set the calendar of the interviews with the WP leaders, in case anyone from the WP wants to participate.
