PaNOSC Project Management Committee meeting - 03/02/2021 
========================================================


Attendees
-------
Jordi (ESRF), Andy (ESRF), Jean-Francois (ESRF), Rudolf (ESRF), Teodor (ELI), Stuart (ILL), Petra (ESS), Dario (CERIC), Nicoletta (CERIC), Jonathan (ESS), Juncheng (XFEL) and Sophie (ExPaNDS)


Minutes
-------	

At the start of the meeting Andy requested to add one point to the agenda: 

* A. travel budget not spent

**1. Pending deliverables and milestones to submit**
Andy reported that work is ongoing in *D2.3- Guidelines on implementing Data Policy Framework* which should be finished by the end of February. 

For the milestone *MS2.2-Adoption of PaNOSC DP framework* the current view is that it would be completed by the end of the week. Andy insisted that he is really sure that both will be definetely done by the end of February.

Jean-François couldn't report any news regarding *D6.4-Software catalogue* but Stuart explained that is still on track for end of March. 

Regarding *MS6.2 First release of PaNOSC services*, Jean-François reported from a meeting with Nicoletta and Thomas to discuss the identification of the service providers. The EOSC Portal would prefer a legal entity to be the service provider which excludes to specify PaNOSC, however, it seems that it is possible for a service to have many providers (Jean-François is verifying this with the EOSC Portal). 

Rudolf asked whether there is any liability or legal responsibility attached to be a provider given the interest in having a legal entity and Jean-François said no. Thomas said that he cannot engage ESS without legal advice. Andy pointed out the fact that while we could all be jointly service providers, in fact most often only one or two could provide support/be responsible by a service, to which Jean-François replied that for support there is a separate email address / url. It is his advice that  all PaNOSC's RIs should register as providers in the EOSC Portal, so it is easy to register services later on.

Andy explained that this milestone is 6 months late and that he would like to have the software catalogue registered with ILL as service provider and the e-learning portal with ESS (because it does not involve any legal responsibility) and look at it later. Jean-François agreed to try to move quickly with the registration of the Software Catalog and e-learning portal.

**New A. Travel budget not spent**

Andy and Jordi reported that for PaNOSC we budgeted 485k€ (+20% overheads) which translates in roughly 120k€ / year. At the time of our 2nd internal financial report (May 2020) we had spent 117k€ (out of 185k€), so it is likely that right now we are sitting on around 130k€ underspending, which is likely to increase to 186k€ by May 2021.

Andy is wondering whether we should allocate this, how (if possible) to convert it to human resources. Rudolf explained that he understands that this is easy to do. Sophie added that for ExPaNDS they are waiting for doing this, ant thinks that the money should remain in the same task.

Andy added, that each partner has a different travel allocation, with XFEL, CERIC and ELI having more than others. Rudolf asked about the request from EGI for a few additional PMs and Andy replied that it would be better to first use the unused money to linked 3rd parties and then if required the travel money. Jordi said that if we need to reallocate money the earlier the better, so we have the time to spend it and Thomas added that in a past project a partner that overspent got the money at the end (someone else in the project did not spend the whole allocation).

**2. [Open call to make one of our services available in EOSC](https://www.eosc-pillar.eu/open-call-thematic-service-providers)**

Sophie explained that it is possible until the end of February to submit to EOSC Pillar a service. This started a conversation about why EOSC Pillar (a regional project) was doing this, the interest of joining and advantages. After a brief discussion it was decided that the PMC cannot endorse at this time the extra work required to make a submission to this initiative.


**3. MATLAB and Simulink integrations with Science Gateways and e-portals in Europe (The MathWorks GmbH)**

Jordi explained that MathWorks is a company that contacted us because they work with "MATLAB and Simulink integrations with Science Gateways and e-portals in Europe". They attended the EGI conference in November 2020 and would like to talk about "the possibilities to offer your users MATLAB on the PaNOSC gateway, similar to what we are doing with other Science Gateways, including the EGI (ongoing), Code Ocean and the SGCI."

Andy explained that while nothing may come at the end of it, he is going to answer the email received from The Mathworks and have a talk with them. Jean-François said that he will also attend to  understand what could be the licensing implications for MATLAB. 

If anyone is interested in joining the call please contact Andy. 

**4. WP leaders other updates**

* WP1 - Management: Jordi reported that the DMP deliverable (D1.2) was resubmitted. For the KPIs is only missing are WP2 and WP4. For risks we are missing WP4 and WP6. Jordi asked the WP leaders (Andy, Sandor and Jean-François) to have the information ready very soon, as this is blocking publishing the KPIs on our website. Jordi added that soon he will be sharing info about milestones and deliverables due end of May.

Jordi also reported looking at the commitments made by WP leaders and partners following the 2nd internal financial review and will be contacting everyone to verify the status of what was agreed at the time. 

* WP2 - Data Policy and Stewardship: On top of the items discusses in point 1, Andy reported advancing with the DMPs, however this is diverging from ExPaNDS. ILL is still not contributing to WP2.

* WP3 - Data Catalogue Services: Tobias was absent. Petra reported that KPIs and risks were updated, with progress in the demonstrator deliverable due at the end of March.

* WP4 - Sandor reported ongoing work with ExPaNDS to have commong KPIs, supporting the demostrator for WP3 to integrate it in the portal. WP4 is also working on use cases and a that he expects a new version of the portal to be ready at the end of the year. Andy added that there was an HDF5 viewer for Jupyter released which supports a use case (**ANDY TO PROVIDE URL**)

* WP5 - Virtual Neutron and X-ray Laboratory (VINYL): Juncheng reported development work to export simulated detector data format to Nexus, so it is compatible with WP4 and WP3 software. He will also try to have a use case submitted very soon.

* WP6 - EOSC Integration: Jean-François reported a [AAI training](https://www.panosc.eu/events/panosc-umbrellaid-technical-training/) to take place tomorrow with 30 registered users (however missing ILL and Soleil)

* WP7 - Sustainability: Ornela was absent. Dario reported a meeting taking place next week and ongoing work with the cost collection.

* WP8 - Staff and User Training: Thomas reported 31 registrations for the [train the trainer workshop](https://www.panosc.eu/events/panosc-expands-internal-workshop-train-the-trainers-1/) (including 8 from ISIS). Thomas also asked how best to document issues (WP8 issues visible at top level of PaNOSC issues in GitHub) and it wasn't clear if Confluence was the way forward. Teodor reported work on Jupyter Notebook intgration into the e-learning portal.

* WP9 - Outreach and Communication: Nicoletta reported D9.1 being resubmitted. She also asked for more engagement for use cases. She reported contacting the user offices of RIs and working on a poster for the [ESRF user meeting](http://www.esrf.eu/UM2021). Also, a video on remote experiments is now available.

At this point, Sandor also commented that there was a good XFEL/DESY Users meeting. Sophie report on an ESCAPE meeting on how to use DOIs and Andy added that guidelines for DOIs usage will be published following that meeting.

-ENDS-
