PaNOSC Project Management Committee meeting - 02/11/2020
========================================================


Attendees
-------
Jordi (ESRF), Andy (ESRF), Nicoletta (CERIC),  Teodor (ELI), Tobias (ESS), Stuart(ILL), Sandor (XFEL), Juncheng (XFEL), Petra (ESS), Ornela (CERIC), Thomas (ESS), Dario (CERIC), Roberto (CERIC) and Sophie (ExPaNDS)


Minutes
-------	

**1. Updates on deliverables & milestones due in November**

Jordi explained that the deliverables and milestones related to WP5 were submitted on time (D5.2 and MS5.2); for WP1 the submission was two days late (D1.6 and MS1.3) while WP2 and WP6 items are still pending.

Andy explained that for WP2 he expects the deliverable to be ready by the end of January and D6.4 for the end of March. Thomas added that he received an email from the EOSC saying that after a portal update they are now ready to register services again. Andy said that there is a webminar 03/12/2020 about the EOSC new portal.

Stuart explained that a new recruit is starting at the ILL in January and from that point development on the deliverable will move forward.

Jordi said that he would like to gather an estatement from WP2 and WP6 leaders to explain our Project Officer the delays and the new timescales for submitting these items.

Nicoletta asked whether she can announce the deliverables submitted and everyone agreed that this is possible, however it is important to say that these are submitted pending approval.


**2. Open Research Europe platform**

Nicoletta explained that Open Research Europe is going to be available since the start of 2021. It is an open access peer-reviewed site where articles can be published. Articles can be accepted if at least one auther is involved in a EU-funded project. Nicoletta added that this website is for research publications, so nothing abour proceedings/outcomes of events, so she would be happy if experience on where to publish proceedings could be shared with WP9.

Sophie said that Open Research Europe is due to be launched in March 2021 but it is already open for submissions.

Andy added that Open Research Europe doesn't replace zenodo and Nicoletta further explained that Zenodo is not peer-reviewed and therefore more open while Open Research Europe is peer reviewed and the amount of content in there will be mroe reduced.


**3. Common KPIs**

Jordi explained that Sophie and him reviewed the KPIs of both projects and the presentations during the annual meeting. It was agreed that we would be publishing common KPIs and Jordi and Sophie have emailed WP leaders in both projects in order to obtain this information. [Issue #63](https://github.com/panosc-eu/panosc/issues/63) contains links to the lists of KPIs and it would be good if WP leaders could work with their ExPaNDS correspondents, common KPIs agreed and new values for them provideded, so Nicoletta can publish them in the website.

Sophie asked whether it would be better to aggregate the KPIs of both projects or put them side by side and it was decided that this would be up to the Communications WP. In some cases, certain KPIs values may be double counted if aggregated into a single value.


**5. WP leaders updates**

 **WP4**: Sandor reported the start of the two task forces
1.- Portal development and deployment
2.- Use cases + tools to add to the portal
which meet every three weeks each (so roughly a meeting every 10 days as we have two task forces).

Sandor explained that they are raising tech issues/problems and solving them, so the portal can be deployed everywhere and can work for the use cases. 

Sandor reported discussing KPIs with Anton (ExPaNDS).

* **WP5**: Juncheng reported progress in simulation modules development and also looking at WP5 stories with Macstas. Juncheng added that he hopes to provide two user stories by the end of the year. 
Andy praised the fact that these use cases applie to many partner sites at once.

* **WP6**: Jean-François was absent. Stuart reported that the ILL is advancing with the software catalog and data trasnfer tests. Andy added that the ESRF has hired a second person for WP6 that started 2nd December 2020.

* **WP7**: Ornela reported work on the cost collection (which is advancing as planned), the business models, a questionnaire and remardks on the sutainability of software post-project (a non-financial sustainability report).

Roberto made a presentation about feedback collection on FAIR data (after looking at a paper from Canada on the topic) and [showed a Google Form](https://docs.google.com/forms/d/e/1FAIpQLSfMk59iZPzAPKrMUFbsnAV-I-kWP21s0HofZXyXAfqUlbhIWw/viewform). It was agreed that it is important to define clearly what we want to gain from the questionnaire to ensure that the questions are well designed.

* **WP8**: Thomas reported approaching LENS, suggesting a joing LENS-LEAPS-PaNOSC IT meeting and that in LENS it was said that they would observe each other regarding IT developments.  Thomas also reported progress on federated access to PaNdata.org, Jupyter, KPIs and a post-doc joining the WP soon.

* **WP9**: Nicoletta reported events on 03/12 at 11h about the new release of the EOSC portal and also a deliverable from FAIRsFAIR:
* https://eosc-portal.eu/news/dev-diary-4-unboxing-new-release-eosc-portal
* https://www.fairsfair.eu/news/integrating-metadata-catalogues-support-cross-disciplinary-fair-uptake

Nicoletta also reported two interviews to users (ILL two weeks ago and CERIC yesterday) and most of the work for the use case form done, however it remains a question regarding GDPR: what if personal information is typed in the form?

* **WP1**: Jordi reported working with Sophie on the Risk Management, with a review of PaNOSC risks taking place soon (WP leaders to be contacted by Jordi soon), common KPIs and then a review of PaNOSC's Data Management Plan.

Andy pointed out that it would be good to start thinking about next year annual conference, ideally joint with ExPaNDS.


* **WP2**: Andy reported continuous work in D2.3. Jordi reminded him that it would be good to share some information with our Project Officer about the delayed deliverable.

* **WP3**: Tobias reported good progress on the next deliverable which is led by ELI and also good collaborationwith WP4 and Sandor, providing input to portal from WP3. OAI-PMH is blocked.


**6. AOB**

Andy reported that following feedback receibed the EOSC-Future project is to be completely rewritten.

It was agreed that the next meetings will take place 16th December and 6th January.























