Attendees:
- Kareem Galal (ESS)
- Rudolf Dimpler (ESRF)
- Jean-Francois Perrin (ESRF)


Update:
# Deliverables added to document
  - Deliverables
    - Deliverable 6.1 EGI data-hub integration with the facilitiesâ€™ data repositories (M18, R, PU, ELI) 
    - Deliverable 6.2 Integration of local compute resources into the EOSC cloud (M12, R, PU, ELI) 
    - Deliverable 6.3 Integration of the PaN AAI into the EOSC (M36, R,DEM, PU, ILL)
    - Deliverable 6.4 Demonstration of the PaN software catalogue integration into EOSC (M24, DEM, PU, ILL) 
    - Deliverable 6.5 Report on EOSC integration (M48, R, PU, ILL)
  - Questions for further discussion:
    - How do any of the above related to Service Definition?
    - Which deliverable does the current Service Definition work fall under?

# Starting point: description of work (Helpdesk)
  - Currently, only Task 6.5 references the Helpdesk, which is tightly coupled with EOSC Service Catalogue. 
  - Need to define/agree on general Helpdesk definitions moving forward:
    - Will each RI need to have its own local Helpdesk to join the EOSC Helpdesk?
    - Is access to a central Helpdesk sufficient for this stage?
    - How will AAI for the EOSC based Helpdesk be organised?
    
# AAI: Agree on UmbrellaID for federated access. How should we put this into action?
  - The Keycloak Training last week showcased the high number of interested users for AAI
  - We should utilise the current momentum to rollout UmbrellaID as a federated AAI solutions at RIs
  - Ensure a functioning a connect to UmbrellaID is available at each RIs, for testing purposes
  - Establish a point of contact at each RI for advancing the installation, configuration and incorporation into UmbrellaID


Discussion:
- Helpdesk
  - Could ask Thomas (WP8) on how he will support pan-learning.org? How to manage support?
  - Technical aspects and operational responsibilities need to be defined.
  - Each service provider needs to provide a service support person (handling support tickets for the Service)
  - Federated Helpdesk service
    - could start with an email address (with response time SLA, eg 1 day, or 1 week)
    



Outstanding:
- Definition of Done (DoD): when to know that the work for this workgroup is complete
- no new updates are being added to the Google document at: https://docs.google.com/document/d/1e9QddP9aPXShK3SMChfp7LfD5xPIDZAGKcl4petAaQE/edit#
- no explicit milestones set 
- allocating topics to members, for presentation
- how to present progress to the rest of the WP6 team
- minutes currently added to a single Google doc. This should be moved to a fortnighly page on panosc Github (this page)
- agreed agendas should be sent prior to the meeting to facilitate more fruitful discussions


For next meeting:
- Prepare minutes documents with points to discuss at the meeting
- Prepare a presentation for the general WP6 meeting (16/2/2021) showing main points discussed so far in Service Definition meetings
