Attendees:
- Kareem Galal (ESS)
- Rudolf Dimper (ESRF)
- Jean-Francois Perrin (ESRF)
- Teodore Ivanoaica (ELI)

Update:
# Presentation to general WP6 group
  - Provided a presentation for the general WP6 meeting (16/2/2021) showing main points discussed so far in Service Definition meetings
  - Feedback from the presentation:
    - Do we want a general/standard SLA for PaNOSC?
      - Generally speaking, Yes
      - We should create a general process and disseminate to the RIs
    - Services: what are the different types of services available?
      - single vs federated (managed)
      - services managed by non-PaNOSC entities?
      - should add a new slide to the powerpoint presentation on Services
    - Many unanswered questions in the presentation
      - the questions should be extracted, and be presented to PMC for further discussion
      

Discussion:
# Questions for PMC
- Current questions include:
  - AAI
    - Who has access, and access to what?
    - How to define anonymous access: open access should not mean anonymous access
    - How should access to resources be stated: none, limited, based on RI/affiliation?
  - SLA (or Service Level Definition)
    - Should we consider a common set of SLAs for the PaNOSC community?
    - How should SLA deviations be treated?
  - Helpdesk
    - Is a local Helpdesk a requirement for joining the EOSC Helpdesk?
    - Is access to a central Helpdesk sufficient at this stage?
    - How will AAI for the central Helpdesk be organised?
  - Governance/Sustainability
    - Should this be centralised or de-centralised model?
      - Managed at the RI level
      - A single entity managing the PaN community RIs input

# Plan working on the standard/general PaNOSC SLA
    
# Plan working on Helpdesk strategy/recommendation

# During the meeting
- JF: PMC advised that we have 20 minutes to present on 17th March 2021
   - Kareem: create powerpoint presentation for next meeting containing questions for PMC
- Refer to Expands WP4 Operational framework document for presentation
- Other questions to be put forward to PMC
  - Accounting: 
    - do we need them? Software/resources used by the various RIs
    - who are interested in these values
    - What is the usage of the services we provide, number of user requests, etc...
    - who should the accounting data be presented to? (important for proposal submisssions)
    - SLAs and Accounting are inter-dependent on each other (using the accounting system to fulfill your SLA)
  - SLA
    - one approach: A "best-effort" approach should be the spirit and intention for SLA definitions
    - sometimes a "best-effort" approach is not the best model to follow
    - one approach: "Desired Operational Level Agreements" we would like to have a specific level of reliability, with no penalties attached
  - AAI
    - level of assurance
    
    
  

For next meeting:
- Kareem: create powerpoint presentation for next meeting containing questions for PMC
  - short introduction on what we are doing
  - then questions presented
  
