#  WP6 fortnightly telco #32

Tuesday 8th Deember 2020 - 11H00 CET

​	Next meeting : Tuesday 22nd December 2020 at 11H00 CET

Attendees : Ian , Marco, Christos, Michael, Andrea, William, Patrick, François, Philippe, Gregory, Andy, Giuseppe, Teodor, Rudolf, Humaira.



## Agenda

2. Status of the different activities regarding DT use cases 
3. AAI (move of the remaining SPs, need of training and documentation for/from RIs)
4. Discussion on new possible activities (Software provisioning, ...)
5. Discussion on organisation (who is participating in which activities)
6. Integration of services in the EOSC Portal 
7. Definition of PaNOSC services, try to propose a definition for the PMC (help needed) 
8. AOB
## Discussions:

**Data transfer**

Information from Patrick: Data lake (possibility of an introduction meeting / workshop with ESCAPE), HIFIS (FTS3 and HTTP apache module) that could be a solution for Use case#2
https://www.researchgate.net/publication/335860627_Architecture_and_prototype_of_a_WLCG_data_lake_for_HL-LHC

Organisation of the Workshop with ESCAPE, prepare use case description (Marco and ??)  and volunteer to present the uses cases.

IBM Aspera presentation is now planned for the 7th of December

Upgrade of the next version of OneData  with EGI, ILL, CERIC. The new version is available and has now to be deployed. Andrea will contact the 2 facilities to proceed.



IBM aspera also has the need to open specific ports. Need to write a more detailed requirements and start benchmark. STFC is interested to join.

Onedata, upgraded has been completed at EGI, DESY and ILL, still pending at CERIC.  It is working, we need to see if we can filtered the some files/folder for transfer.
Luma should now be explored, 

12th of January meeting with ESCAPE, needs to be announced

**AAI**

All the SPs from Umbrellaid are now connected to the new infrastructure, we are now in position to move to step 2.

How to connect Keycloak to Umbrellaid, Christos is sending the documentation for connecting through OIDC.

Common place for documentation / aggregation of doc ?

Training topics: 

- Introduction to SSO protocols (OIDC/SAML)  - GEANT
- Keycloack installation for an RI (how to help? where to start) - RI partner (ESRF,DESY,ELI)
- Connection to umbrellaID - GEANT
- Authorisation mechanism - ESRF

Hand Out training potential team :   GEANT, Teodor, Michael.  

Action raised the question of sustaibanility in the long run ate the next PMC for involving LENS and LEAPS.

**Further topics of interest**
The investigation of the Software distribution topic was agreed during this meeting.

- CERNVMFS webinar Andrea to share available materials

- Ian Is taking the lead on CERNVMFS - a presentation will be planned for a next meeting.

  

**Service EOSC Portal**

https://eosc-portal.eu/for-providers

**Draft definition of PaNOSC services**

Lead taken by Kareem. Teodor, Rudolf and Jean-François involved.

Inspiration on what has been done for EOSC by EOSC-Hub, umbrellaid.

https://www.eosc-portal.eu/sites/default/files/EOSC-hub%20Integration%20Handbook%20for%20Service%20Providers.pdf