PaNOSC Project Management Committee meeting - 18/11/2020
========================================================


Attendees
-------
Jordi (ESRF), Andy (ESRF), Rudolf (ESRF), Jean-François (ESRF), Nicoletta (CERIC),  Teodor (ELI), Tobias (ESS), Jamie (ILL), Sandor (XFEL), Juncheng (XFEL), Petra (ESS), Ornela (CERIC), Jonathan (ESS), Dario (CERIC) and Sophie (ExPaNDS)


Minutes
-------	

**1. [ExPaNDS + PaNOSC Annual Meeting](https://indico.eli-beams.eu/event/376/page/0)**

Jordi started the meeting by saying that he thinks the Annual Meeting was very well organised and thanked all organisers. He explained that he thinks it is very good to get both ExPaNDS and PaNOSC together and that he hopes this way of organising annual meetings can be repeated in the future. He added that it is a shame that it couldn't be face to face as it is very difficult to have the informal conversations / contacts / unplanned catch-ups during a remote event.

Tobias said that the fact that it was organised in half-day sessions helped people to stay focused.

Jordi added that some WPs did two separate presentations (ExPaNDS + PaNOSC) instead of a unique presentation focusing on common work.

**2. Updates on deliverables & milestones due in November**

***[D1.6 - Report of annual workshop 2](https://docs.google.com/document/d/1dguUn3xSr5RwYELbkHfOeuvhjLT03Q_D/edit#)*** : Jordi asked all WP leaders to click on the link and help completing the D1.6 deliverable. This is a short deliverable about the annual meeting and progress in the project. Jordi explained that every WP leader should take the time to write around half a page about their presentation and another half page about progress in the work package. The deadline for submitting the deliverable is Monday 30th November, therefore it is imperative that contributions take place by Friday 27th.

***MS1.3 - Second Annual report*** is related to D1.6, so when the deliverable is done we can tick the milestone

***[D2.3 - Guidelines on implementing Data Policy Framework](https://docs.google.com/document/d/1_myPYPk3DTXz-x1-meW4nXBcxNWO4yax-jGP6V00cHU/edit?usp=sharing)*** : Andy reported that this is advancing, but there is a small risk of being late. He invited everyone to contribute in the link above.

***MS2.2 - Adoption of PaNOSC DP framework*** : Andy explained that this milestone depends on the partners adopting the Data Policy, which can be a very long process, with CERIC the only partner getting closer. Dario reported while the milestone is not achieved yet it has been approved by directors and now needs to go the General Assembly. Ornela added that the GA is next Monday 23rd November and at that point she expects the GA to follow the advice of directors.

Jordi explained that the approved proposal and Grant Agreement read that the means of verification for this milestone are "Data policies are endorsed officially and are published on official pages", so it is not 100% clear whether we can tick it or not.

***D5.2 - Documented simiulation APIs*** : Juncheng explaiend that while a D5.2 document exists he doesn't have a copy and that he is awaiting information from Carsten. Juncheng explained that all API are released in Zenodo. Jordi added that he received a document for MS5.2 and that it seems that D5.2 would be a subset of MS5.2 which has a wider scope, so renaming the document may do the trick. It was agreed that Jordi / Juncheng will try to contact Carsten again.

***MS5.2 - Demostration of simulation services*** : Jordi has the document and he suggested some changes in order to match D5.2 definition and follow EU rules. Jordi is awaiting feedback on this.

***D6.4 - Software catalogue*** : Jean-François reported that he still thinks that the deliverable will be around 6 months late due to ILL not having the required resource in place. It was agreed that Jean-François would draft a short email explaining the situation which will be then sent to our Project Officer by Jordi/Andy.

***MS6.2 First release of PaNOSC service*** : Jean-François said he is confident the milestone will be reached in time.

**3. Who should cover the costs of publications. Should it be the partner who released it, or the partner leading the WP to which the publication is related?**

Jordi explained that Nicoletta raised the topic of who should cover the cost of publications and that it would be good clarifying this point for everyone during the PMC meeting.

Jordi explained that Andy and him think that the best approach would be for the (partner of the) main author to pay the costs associated with the publication being open access. Andy added that PaNOSC has reserved some funds for this and also that we will underspend in travel during 2020, therefore it shouldn't be a problem for the partners to pay for this.

Sandor added that if the main author is not from a PaNOSC partner but the publication received PaNOSC support in that case the main PaNOSC contributor should cover the cost.

After these brief points were made it was agreed that: *the cost of open access publications to which PaNOSC contributed will be covered by the partner of the main author. If the main author is not from PaNOSC, then the PaNOSC partner that contributed the most to the publication would cover the cost* 

**5. WP leaders updates**

* **WP2** : Andy reported that information about DMPs has been collected (CERIC contribution missing though) and that work is ongoing on the deliverable.

Sandor asked whether DMPs appear in the Data Policy and Andy explained that DMPs are mentioned as possible but not mandatory.

* **WP3** : Tobias reported a meeting of WP3 last Friday after the annual meeting. Work is ongoing on the Search API roll-out, however not all partners offer end-points yet. 

Andy asked about OAI and Tobias replaied that there is a lack of data as some staff need to review the whole process to ensure that the automatic process works.

* **WP4** : Sandor reported setting up two task forces.
1.- Portal development and deployment
2.- Use cases + tools to add to the portal

Sandor also explained that a meeting is planned in two week's time.

* **WP5** : Juncheng reported that the deliverable and milestone are almost finished, however he needs to get in touch with Carsten to solve the D5.2 little issue.

Andy suggested that WP5 should talk with Nicoletta for interviews / videos that could help disseminate WP5 results.

* **WP6** : Jean-François reported a meeting last week. He explained that the AAI task is nrearly done, with only 3 partners (ESRF, ILL, PSI) missing to have the service provider migrated. Andy asked whether this would be announced in the Umbrella website and suggested Jean-François to contact Mirjam. Jean-François continued to explain that the AAI step is important as after this it would be possible to get new metadata from EduGain.

Jean-François also said that in two week's time there will be a report on PaN services.

* **WP7** : Ornela reported not many news as WP7 has not met since the annual meeting. Ornela explained that the cost collection is nearing completion and that she has thought of producing a sustainability interim draft-report focusing on non-monetary sustainability aspects, however she still needs to discuss this within the WP.

Ornela also reported a symposium on GAIA-x

* **WP8** : Thomas and Florian were absent. Nicoletta reported that there is some work ongoing for the e-learning platform and workshops. Teodor added that the WP is seeking feedback from past users of the platform in order to obtain a list of desired features / improvements that could help steer future development. Teodor also explained that Jupyter is now itnegrated in the e-learning platform.

* **WP9** : Nicoletta reported working on the follow-up communications from the annual meeting and symposium, in particular preparing a news item, a survey for attendees and seeking a journal with open-access to publish an article on the event. The recordings have been edited and will be soon available on PaNOSC website and youtube.

Nicoletta also reported that Tobias presented PaNOSC at a SSHOC / Freya event (where most attendees didn't like the *marketplace* term).

Nicoletta highlighted the plenary meetings of LEAPS and LENS, where PaNOSC will be presented.

Sophie explaiend that Mark is doing a general overview in the LEAPS meeting and Andy added that Rudolf will talk about the relationship of LEAPS with EOSC.

Sophie also reported a [meeting at PETRA IV](https://indico.desy.de/event/26605/) where ExPaNDS / PaNOSC is presented (using materials from teh annual meeting).

Nicoletta finished by explaining that work is ongoing to add a form in the website  (under materials -> use cases) to allow people to submit use cases.

* **WP1** : Jordi reported working on the [D1.6](https://docs.google.com/document/d/1dguUn3xSr5RwYELbkHfOeuvhjLT03Q_D/edit#) and asked everyone to contribute. He added that he will work with Sophie for the Risk Management (as ExPaNDS is very similar to PaNOSC) and asked all WP leaders to edit the KPIs document to add what they presented in the annual meeting, so the KPIs can be published in our website by the end of the year.


























