PaNOSC Project Management Committee meeting - 19/05/2021 
========================================================


Attendees
-------
Jordi (ESRF),  Jean-Francois (ESRF), Erwan (ILL), Jamie (ILL), Stuart (ILL), Jamie (ILL), Nicoletta (CERIC), Ornela (CERIC), Dario (CERIC) Fabio (XFEL), Carsten (XFEL), Thomas (ESS), Petra (ESS)  and Sophie (DESY, ExPaNDS), Teodor (ELI)


Minutes
-------	

At the start of the meeting Jean-François asked to add a question from the EU Office at the ILL.

**0. Renaming entity responsible for deliverable**

Jean-François reported that the EU Office of the ILL would like to change the main responsible party for delivering WP6 deliverables from the ILL to the ESRF, mostly because the leading person behind WP6 at the ILL (Jean-François) changed jobs from the ILL to the ESRF. Jean-François said that he is not against, however does not see how this would make a difference.

Jordi added that while he is not an H2020 funding expert understands that the named partner of the deliverable is just the partner leading leading the work for the deliverable but that all partners should engage and remain involved as per the proposal & grant agreement. Jordi added that he could ask our Grants office their opinion and if needed Legal at the ESRF to ensure it is OK.

**1. Realigning PMs between work packages**

Jordi reported that Petra asked him about reassigning PMs between WPs at the ESS and that he explained to Petra that at the ESRF this has been done (some PMs from WP1 and WP2 have been moved into WP6), however this has not been made "official". Jordi added that his understanding was that as long as the partner is delivering (i.e. not changing the scope of its engagement in the WP) these kind of changes are not a big deal.

Sophie added that it is OK as long as you justify the reasons behind the change (unexpected complexity, disparity in salaries working in a given WP, etc.). 

Jordi added that we all should remember to add these justifications in the next Periodic Report which is due after M36

**2. How is PaNOSC going to engage/coordinate with EOSC Future?**

Jean-François reported that kick-off meetings are taking place for each WP, however how to engage with the project is still an open question. EOSC Future will change some aspects of the EOSC Portal and we will need to adapt to them. In particular the way services are declared, some APIs promised in EOSC Enhance (monitoring and metrics) and helpdesk will change, which may put pressure on costs and effort in the WP6 end of PaNOSC.

Ornela asked whether the AAI solution chosen can affect PaNOSC and Jean-François replied that we do not know yet. Christos (Géant) is leading this aspect in EOSC Future, which is good as we worked with him for AAI with UmbrellaId, however there are some unresolved issues with cross community authentication and the solution is not fully interoperable in all cases, so there may be some changes for us.

**3. Draft documents for D2.3, D6.4 and D1.7 required**

Jordi remind WP2 of D2.3. Andy was absent but he shared an email with a link to the draft deliverable document and asked for contributions.

Regarding D6.4, the deliverable is a demostrator and Jordi explained that as long as the code is there and can be shown, the deliverable to update can be just a very short document linking the code and where it can be seen in practice. Jordi added that we had a couple of deliverables that were very short for this reason. Jean-François replied that it is almost done and asked Jamie to provide him with a description of the API to complete the deliverable.

Jordi also asked all WP leaders that have not yet contributed to look at D1.7. Jordi explained that he will be on leave next week and if he does not receive the contributions by tomorrow then the deliverable will have to be delivered late. Many WP leaders have contributed with an explanation of the work in their WP during the last 6 months, the related KPIs and reviewing the document.

**4. Use Cases Dashboard**

Jordi showed the table below

| Partner | Use Cases Submitted | Comments |
| ------- | ------------------- | -------- |
| ESRF  |  5  | 1 planned   |
| ILL   |  1  | 3 planned  | 1 w CERIC and EGI)
| ESS   |  1  |   |
| XFEL  |  7  |   |
| CERIC |  4  | 1 w ILL and EGI, 4 planned |
| ELI   |  1  | 1 planned  |
| EGI   |  1  | 1 w CERIC and ILL | 

and reminded everyone that the target is **10 user cases per partner**. Unfortunately no partner has reached that target and most of the partners are very far from it, so Jordi asked for extra effort engaging with scientists so a few use cases can be submitted at each partner site.

Nicoletta added that a few more use cases are being submitted but more engagement with scientists is required. Also, feedback has been collected about the way user cases are displayed in the website and she will think about improving it.

Teodor commented that 1 use case sis being discussed at ELI and that he expects that in September/October once tools are operation at ELI it will be easier to capture use cases and get 6-8 more.

Thomas reported 1 use case being done at ESS but nto submitted yet. The use case is about using the pan-learning with Jupyter Notebooks to learn about WP5-related simulations.

Erwan said that at the ILL the use cases are not advancing very fast.

**5. Next WPs to have a review**

The attendees agreed that the next dates for meetings will be:
* 02/06/2021 : PMC meeting
* 09/06/2021 : WP7 - Sustainability Review
* 16/06/2021 : PMC meeting
* 23/06/2021 : WP6 - EOSC Integration Review

All meetings will take place at the usual time and there is no meeting planned for next week (27/05/2021).

**6. WP leaders updates**

**WP7 - Sustainability**: Ornela reported the cost collection advancing, a meeting with ELI and ESRF and a useful document about how the ESRF has approached the cost collection written by Rudolf, however the XFEL costs are still missing. Ornela also explained that the Business Models discussion has started, however the WP will focus on the cost first as there is a deliverable coming up.

Ornela also reported that the EOSC Association has created a Working Group for Sustainability and she will co-coordinate with Rupert Lueck. She also said that two Research Infrastructures are represented among the four co-chairs and that she thinks that is positive as it may improve the chances of our concerns and needs be addressed.

**WP8 - Staff and User Training**: Thomas reported a meeting about the Future of Jupyter and CPU resources for pan-learning. He also explained that WP8 has setup their onw GitHub and that work is ongoing for the document that supports MS8.4.

**WP9 - Outreach and dissemination**: Nicoleta reported a publication about Jupyter notebooks: https://www.panosc.eu/news/new-publication-on-reproducible-science-with-jupyter-notebooks-released/ and reminded everone of the upcoming meetings, in particular the EOSC Symposium and the fact that the deadline for submitting abstracts is tomorrow.

* 15-18 June 2021: [EOSC Symposium 2021](https://www.eoscsecretariat.eu/events/eosc-symposium-2021) - Deadline for proposals' submission: 20 May 2021
* 19-21 October 2021: [EGI Conference 2021](https://www.egi.eu/egi-conference/2021-beyond-the-horizon/) - [Call for abstracts open until 1st July 2021](https://www.egi.eu/egi-conference/2021-beyond-the-horizon/call-for-abstracts/)
* 25-27 October 2021: [Max IV User Meeting](https://www.maxiv.lu.se/users/user-meetings/) 

**WP1 - Management**: Jordi reported ongoing work for D1.7 for which help from WP leaders is required. The deliverable is due end of May and if the information is not provided before Friday the deliverable will be late (Jordi is on leave next week). Jordi also said that he has received all the required information for the new instance of the internal financial report, which all going well should be ready by the end of June. 

**WP2 - Data Policy**: Andy was absent. Jordi reminded everyone to contribute to D2.3 and Teodor added that he has already done so.

**WP3 - Data Catalog Services**: Tobias was absent as this meeting clashed with the WP3 Best Practices meeting.

**WP4 - Data Analysis Services**: Fabio reported the decision made to focus on VISA migration, to which all partners in WP5 have agreed. The decision was based in order to ensure the sustainability and efficiency to deliver a PaN Portal. He added that this should have been communicated maybe a bit better. 

Sophie asked whether there are plans to discuss this with ExPaNDS and Fabio replied that he has offered a meeting and support to adapt and adopt VISA. 

Sophie asked what will be done in the future to avoid misscomunication between PaNOSC and ExPaNDS and Fabio replied that he joined WP4 late (he is the 3rd WP leader for WP4) and that maybe the approach should have been explained better. Fabio repeated that the features and objectives of WP4 will be reached with VISA which will become the PaN Portal (whether VISA is renamed or not that is just a branding issue). 

**WP5 - VINYL**: Carsten reported ongoing work with some new internal milestones available on https://github.com/PaNOSC-ViNYL/ViNYL-project/milestones

Upcoming internal milestones are abour comparing raw simulated data with raw experimental data and also simulation databases (a collection of Jupyter Notebooks and OASIS setups) to help users run their simulations. Jordi will add the new internal milestones to the [project plan](https://github.com/panosc-eu/panosc/blob/master/Work%20Packages/WP1%20Management/Plans/Deliverables_Milestones_and_InternalMilestones.xlsx)

Thomas reported a call of Horizon Europe related to WP5 about to be published.

**WP6 - EOSC Integration**: Jean-François reported that there are still issues with OneData (data transport between repositories & compute resources) and that there is no alternative and OneData has not been yet validated. He added that the ESRF may pick-up this task from ILL. A pilot is ongoing between ESRF and STFC with the service definition ongoing (to be shared wit hthe PMC once ready).


-ENDS-
