PaNOSC Project Management Committee meeting - 16/12/2020
========================================================


Attendees
-------
Jordi (ESRF), Andy (ESRF), Jean-Francois (ESRF), Rudolf (ESRF), Nicoletta (CERIC),  Teodor (ELI), Jamie (ILL), Sandor (XFEL), Juncheng (XFEL), Petra (ESS), Ornela (CERIC), Thomas (ESS), Dario (CERIC), Roberto (CERIC) and Sophie (ExPaNDS)


Minutes
-------	

**1. Email to Project Officer regarding delayed deliverables/milestones**

Andy will gather the reasons for the delays from WP2 and WP6 and send an email to the PO to inform him and explain why 2 deliverables and milestones are late.

**2. Update of deliverable D9.1**

Nicoletta informed the PMC that following the comments at the review meeting the deliverable D9.1 has been updated with new material (broschure, slideshare, slack channel, confluence, common meetings). 
The new version has a link to an online version so that in the future updates can be followed by simply clicking on the link.

**3. Common KPIs progress & 4. Risk Management**

Jordi asked all WP leaders to update and edit the online documents!

**5. WP leaders other updates**

WP1 - Jordi said that there was nothing to report except that he was going on holidays after the meeting

WP2 - Andy mentioned that a summary of the PaNOSC Data Policy Framework has been published in the British Crystallography Association Decemberl Newsletter.

WP3 - Petra (reporting on behalf of Tobias) said there was a closer collaboration between WP3 and WP4 but there are still issues with lack of involvement from some sites

WP4 - Sandor reported there is a search API mockup but they are still looking for a Use Case for this

WP5 - no news

WP6 - Jean-Francois reported that the UmbrellaId AAI has been migrated to eduTeams and will soon open the proxy for users to register. 
A connection to ORCID is planned for the future. There will be an online training on installaing and configuring UmbrellaId by GÃ‰ANT on the 4+5 February 2021. 
Some sites (ESS) have difficulties setting up UmbrellaId but this is more related to their local setup than the software in general.
A workshop on data sharing solutions including the ESCAPE Data Lake will take place on the 12 January 2021. 
Jamie reported that he will start working on the SW catalogue. Jean-Francois reported there are issues with the EOSC catalogue which is slowing down registering new services.

WP7 - Ornela reported that the Milestone MS?? will be delayed. WP7 proposes to send their questionnaire to the ESUO as the first iteration in contacting users for feedback.

WP8 - Thomas reported that the issue of sustainability of the e-learning platform has been transferred to WP7. to be further discussed there. 
There has been good progress on the integration of Jupyter notebooks in pan-learning.org. A workshop for Training the Trainer is being organised. We suggest maximum 2 persons per panosc site.

WP9 - Nicoletta reported that Simex and McStasScript video interviews are planned. 
The web form for gathering Use Cases is advancing well and will be published before the next round of User meetings.
PaNOSC will be presented at the EuXFEL+DESY User Meetings with posters (Sandor + Nicoletta) and at the ESRF UM (Andy, Jordi + Nicoletta).

**6. Recent and upcoming events**

Rudolf reported that EOSC-Future proposal rewrite is advancing well.

**7. AOB**

Jean-Francois reported that the ILL is looking a site to replace them on the EOSC Enhance project. For more details please contact Jean-Francois.
