PaNOSC Project Management Committee meeting - 14/04/2021 
========================================================


Attendees
-------
Jordi (ESRF), Andy (ESRF), Jean-Francois (ESRF), Erwan (ILL), Jamie (ILL), Nicoletta (CERIC), Ornela (CERIC), Dario (CERIC), Teodor (ELI), Roberto (CERIC), Fabio (XFEL), Rudolf (ESRF), Carsten (XFEL), Giuseppe (EGI) and Pattrick (DESY, ExPaNDS)


Minutes
-------	

**1. Do we have a new Project Officer?**

Jordi and Andy explained that there are no news regarding a new Project Officer (PO) and Pattrick added that his former PO couldn't communicate the name of the new PO.

It was agreed to wait at least until the end of May before asking the Commission who wold be the new PO

**2. How is PaNOSC going to engage/coordinate with EOSC Future?**

Jordi started this item in the agenda asking what kind of handover is PaNOSC responsible for to pass into ExPaNDS (keeping in mind that at the time PaNOSC was accepted EOSC Future did not exist).

Rudolf explained that EOSC Future had its kick-off in a bit of a rush and that the first task at hand now is to try to organise EOSC Future and set up an agreed management structure for the project. Once this is done PSI,DESY, ILL and ESRF will represent PaNOSC and ExPaNDS at the EOSC Future, which will ask PaNOSC to bring our products/services into EOSC. Rudolf added that it is a bit too early to say how we will interact with EOSC Future.

Andy asked what are the objectives of EOSC Future and Rudolf replied that to define and showcase how the EOSC can add value to scientists and that for the PaN community this will mean a focus on two sicence cases: Serial Crystalography and Single Particle Imaging.

It was agreed that Rudolf will be awarded an item in the agenda going forward to quickly update on progress and the relationship with EOSC Future project.


**3. Chatbot in PaNOSC website**

Roberto showcased the system, which requires the collection of feedback to be improved. Roberto also showed some slides and explained a little bit how the underlying technology (RASA) works. Roberto also said that he is open to receive help from anyone that want to collaborate by providing questions and answers to the chatbot.


**4. *How is ExPaNDS delivering its data services to PaNOSC and EOSC* meeting**

Pattrick reported a successful meeting in which SciCat and Icat were discussed and EGI presented what they understand as integrating services.

Jean-François presented the software catalogue but without time to discuss engagement of ExPaNDS partenrs on it. This was followed by a brief exchange on who should host it and who would maintain it and implement new features when required to ensure it is a sustainable initiative.

**5. Draft documents for D2.3 and D6.4 required**

Andy reported no progress on [D2.3 - Guidelines  on best practices implementing the PaNOSC Data Policy framework](https://docs.google.com/document/d/1_myPYPk3DTXz-x1-meW4nXBcxNWO4yax-jGP6V00cHU/edit) as he is lacking support from the WP contributors. 

Jean-François reported ongoing work on the document and to add UmbrellaId to the software (so no account management is required by us)

**6. Use Cases Dashboard**

| Partner | Use Cases Submitted | Comments |
| ------- | ------------------- | -------- |
| ESRF  |  3  | 3 planned   |
| ILL   |  0  |   |
| ESS   |  0  |   |
| XFEL  |  7  |   |
| CERIC |  4  |   |
| ELI   |  0  | 2 planed for WP5 |
| EGI   |  0  |   | 

Jordi repeated that the target is for all partners to submit at least 10 use cases via https://www.panosc.eu/submit-your-use-case/ 

Jordi also reminded that the use cases can be submitted by PaNOSC collaborators (in the name of scientists) or directly by scientists.

Andy offered to contact PaNOSC representatives in the Executive Board if that would help speed up the submission of use cases.

**4. Annual Meeting + Symposium in 2021**

Jordi reported that a first meeting to start organising the Annual Meeting + Symposium will be held 3rd May, with PSI being the hosting organisation. Jordi asked anyone interested in participating in the organisation of the event to get in touch with him.

**7. WP leaders other updates** 


* WP9 - Outreach/Communication and Dissemination/Impact: Nicoletta reported a couple of events 19th April (RDA side event with debates) and Archiver Project. On 22nd April PaN covid data event within the RDA plenary.

* WP8 - Thomas was absent. Teodor reported integrating UmbrellaID and developing user interface changes. Teodor also reported changes within ESS, with Thomas and Jonathan taking on new responsibilities (however this will not necessarily affect PaNOSC).

-ENDS-
