# PaNOSC WP 7 meeting - 25/11/2020

### Participants
Ornela de Giacomo (CERIC-ERIC), Angela Zennaro (CERIC-ERIC), Roberto Pugliese (CERIC-ERIC), Dario Roccella (CERIC), Teodor Ivanoaica (ELI), Thomas Holm  (ESS), Florian Gliksohn (ELI), Yuri Kiryenko (XFEL)
### Agenda
1.	Stakeholders questionnaire (Roberto)
2.	Cost collection: report on progress/issues by partners
3.	Task 7.3 Business models
4.	Report on non-financial aspects of sustainability: stakeholders consultation (PaNOSC WPs)


### Minutes
#### 1. Stakeholders questionnaire
Roberto Pugliese presents a summary of the paper “Individual costs and benefits of sharing open data in ecology and evolution” shared by Andy. In this study they surveyed 140 faculty members working in ecology and evolution across Canada’s top 20-ranked universities and found that more researchers report benefits (47.9%) and neutral outcomes (43.6%) than costs (21.4%) from sharing data. He proposes to reproduce this kind of survey in our community, maybe adapting it or adding some new questions. If of interest also to Expands it could be carried out as a common activity.  
For the distribution of the questionnaire, Ornela de Giacomo proposes to contact The European Synchrotron and FEL user organisation (ESUO) and The European Neutron Scattering Association (ENSA), as she explains that some user offices may have restrictions in the emails that can be sent to users, according to the policy the users subscribe.  Florian Gliksohn agrees with Ornela de Giacomo and proposes also to verify if this questionnaire can be matched with other questionnaires coming eventually from other PaNOSC WPs. Florian asks if we have the capacity to process the results of such survey, Roberto Pugliese replies that he will take care of it.

#### 2. Task 7.2 Cost collection: report on progress/issues by partners
Ornela de Giacomo asks to the partners regarding the progress on the cost collection activity, saying that Thomas who will join later has informed her that ESS, at the moment, is missing the part of the costs related to EOSC. For CERIC, Roberto Pugliese says that he has to just double check internally the cost they have collected and that it will be feasible to have them in December. Ornela de Giacomo reminds to use the new format with the related categorization discussed weeks ago and available in Github. 
Teodor Ivanoaica says that, for ELI, they have the estimation they shared in a previous meeting, but that they will refine this further and have it ready probably by the end of the next week.  Yuri Kirienko doesn´t have this information today for XFEL, he advices to contact Sandor.
Thomas Holm asks to Teodor Ivanoaica if they already have done the cost collection for the EOSC part, Teodor Ivanoaica  says that since they don’t have incurred costs to report, they have estimated the expenditure assigning some FTEs according to their best estimation. 
According to the report by partners, we can conclude that the milestone M1: complete cost collection by 12.2020 is achievable. Ornela de Giacomo will try to collect all the cost sheets in order to show a first comparison of the costs for next meeting.

#### 3. Task 7.3 Business models (attached power point)
Angela Zennaro presents the value proposition from the business model canvas, explaining how the different values have been updated compared to the last time they were presented, taking also into account the value that PaNOSC results can bring to citizens and companies.
Angela Zennaro also presents the potential channels to reach the users and customers of PaNOSC results, highlighting the importance of verifying with the developers of the PaNOSC portal how this will be shaped, in order to add as much value as possible to the portal to engage the users. It is highlighted how the portal should bring different advantages to the users compared to what offered through EOSC. 

#### 4. Report on non-financial aspects of sustainability: stakeholders consultation (PaNOSC WPs)
Ornela de Giacomo proposes to launch a consultation with all WP leaders on non -financial aspects of the sustainability of PaNOSC results, such as who will be in charge of maintaining the portal, who will decide what services will be in the portal, who will update the services, etc.  We have to collect feedback on non-financial issues, risks, mitigation measures etc from PaNOSC WPs leaders to start identifying necessary action within the lifetime of PaNOSC and defining the sustainability report (D 7.4)
Thomas Holms agrees that we need to have a plan on how maintain the outputs of PaNOSC after the end of the project and explains that this was raised also during a LENS meeting, but apparently facilities are not willing to invest resources in maintaining the activities initiated by PaNOSC.
Thomas proposes to have the next WP7 meeting in one week instead of two in order to have the cost data compared asap.  Ornela replies that if at least four of the partners will have delivered the cost collection by the beginning of the next week, then it is feasible, otherwise next meeting should take place on the 9th of December.

### Actions pending from previous meetings

- [ ] Task 7.2: Upload the filled [cost collection file](https://github.com/panosc-eu/panosc/blob/master/Work%20Packages/WP7%20Sustainability/Task%207.2%20Metrics%20and%20cost%20for%20the%20Photon%20and%20Neutron%20community%20EOSC/metrics%20and%20cost%20model_V2.xlsx) in the folder of [task 7.2](https://github.com/panosc-eu/panosc/tree/master/Work%20Packages/WP7%20Sustainability/Task%207.2%20Metrics%20and%20cost%20for%20the%20Photon%20and%20Neutron%20community%20EOSC)
- [ ] Comment on the value proposition for task 7.3 (all)
- [ ] Prepare the questionnaire for WP leaders for task 7.4 (Ornela) 
- [ ] Collect feedback from PMC on the questionnaire for users for task 7.1 (Roberto) 

