PaNOSC Project Management Committee meeting - 25/08/2021 
========================================================


Attendees
-------
Jordi (ESRF), Andy (ESRF), Jean-Francois (ESRF), Jamie (ILL), Erwan (ILL), Fabio (XFEL), Thomas (ESS), Jesper (ESS), Carsten (XFEL), Petra(ESS), Stuart (ILL), Teodor (ELI), Orenla (CERIC), Dario (Ceric) and Sophie (ExPaNDS)


Minutes
-------	

Jordi explained that the point 4 of the agenda will not take place as Rudolf is not available today. Andy requested to add a point in the agenda: Face to Face meeting.

**1. Report from the Executive Board meeting**

Jordi reported that the executive meeting covered the following topics:
* Status of the project
* Commitments from partners
* Financial situation
* Sustainability

Jordi explained that he covered the Financial situation based on the 3rd Internal Financial Report that was produced earlier this summer and that the EB decided not to request an extension of the project and also that a new Financial Report should be produced covering up until the end of November. This report will be issued to the EB together with spending plans for the last year of each partner. This will be followed by a new EB meeting at the end of January 2022.

Thomas asked Jordi about the possibility of transfer between partners (in case some partner ends up underspending) and Jordi replied that he believes this is possible, however he double checked with our Project Officer. Ornela said that normally is around 15% and that it must be written in the Annotated Grant Agreement. Dario volunteered to seek this information in the PaNOSC Annotated Grant Agreement and report back.

Andy reported that he focused on the key commitments from partners that we need to deliver as part of PaNOSC: DMPs, UmbrellaId, VISA, data transfer and training. The bare minimum that PaNOSC should deliver is
* Open Data
* that searchable via a common portal
* AAI
* VISA

Andy reported that it was asked whether these key commitments are in the grant agreement and he replied that the official deliverables and milestones are reports, not the actual service running, however it is important to remember that the key outcomes are for our users and while the EU finances PaNOSC we do it to service our urser communitites and not just to please the EU.

Andy explained that he will book individual meetings with WP leaders and partner representatives to check how well we are progressins towards these outcomes.

Regarding Sustainability Andy reported that most partners believe that it must rely on the EOSC and EC rather tahn LENS/LEAPS (of which ELI and CERIC are not partners).

Andy ended up showing the main actions that were agreed during the EB meeting:
First: All partners to review the Grant Agreement to ensure they are aware of their commitments and the outcomes of PaNOSC.
Second:	All partners to follow-up internally to ensure that the 4 minimum outcomes of PaNOSC are achieved over the next 12 months.
Third: All partners to link up scientists with PaNOSC team to identify use cases to ensure 10 use cases are submitted per partner by the end of 2021.
Fourth:	All partners to provide an updated financial spending status in November 2021
Fifth:	All partners to provide J. Bodera + A. Götz with the corrective actions they will undertake to address the underspending and follow-up they will implement locally to ensure the outcomes of PaNOSC are achieved over the next 12 months.

Jordi also reported that Ornela will be the new EB Chair while representing CERIC in the EB (replacing Jana who is busy chairing the ESFRI)


**2. Update on [D8.1 - Report on lessons learned](https://docs.google.com/document/d/1VJg_BWmWUEJYWtU65mO_p-PFNMEBxOAx/edit?dls=true)**

Thomas reported that he has reserved time next week to work on this and that he hopes that all partners contribute (there is a section for each partner in the document!) so he can have the docuemtn ready by 25th of September.

Jordi and Andy reminded all partners to contribute as soon as possible.

**NEW ITEM: Face to face meeting**
Andy explained to all partners that he would like to have a face to face meeting. He explained that Tobias couldn't travel, so he proposed to have the meeting in Copenhagen. He added that a couple of days could help prepare the last twelve months.

Thomas reported that ESS has still restrictions while Denmark doesnt. Petra offered to check what can or can't be organised by ESS regarding events.

**3. News from ExPaNDS**

Sophie reported that ExPaNDS updated its data policy framework, a Scicat release by ESS/PSI that works with the Search API and work with HZB on the FAIR assessement of beamlines.

Andy added that he and Patrick will present PaNOSC and ExPaNDS during the LEAPS plenary meeting.

**4. News from EOSC Future**

Item removed from the agenda.


**5. Update on [expected and completed commitments per WP](https://docs.google.com/document/d/1PBgnw8kKSLn5kAh6nEd1UDuDo-AQdHWr/edit)**

Jordi and Andy reminded all the partners to look at the document and for any commitment ensure that their site is in a position to deliver it.

**6. Updates on PaNOSC/ExPaNDS Symposium and Annual Meeting**

Jordi reminded everyone that the online event will take place 26th October in the morning and that PaNOSC needs to find 3 scientists to present for 10 minutes each one real use case. Andy added that Petr Čermák has been confirmed and that only two more scientists are required.

Teodor said that he is presenting at ELI at the begining of October and that he thinks he can have one sicentist convinced to present. Fabio will ask at XFEL and Andy reported having two scientists in mind at the ESRF but that he needs to ask them.

**7. Next WP review meetings**

Thomas agreed to present WP8 on 13th of October. He will work with Andy on this topic.

**NEW ITEM: feedback to the work programme**

Ornela interrupted to share with all the attendees that the new EU Work Programme will be drafted from October this year and that we have the opportunity to give feedback this month of September in order to steer the next work programme.

It was agreed that all partners will reflect on this and bring their ideas at the next PMC meeting.

**8. WP leaders updates**

* **WP8 - Training** : Thomas reported updates in pan-learning (it can now work with UmbrellaID) with Jesper working on it. Thomas also explained that he will provide soon a use case to use WP6 resources.
* **WP2 - Data Policy** :  Andy reported work with ExPaNDS on DMPs and interacting with user offices. Andy also explained that he is working on ESRF use cases, so this partner is the first to achieve 10.
* **WP4 - Data Analysis** : Fabio  reported ongoing work on progress reports and that Soleil (ExPaNDS) will try VISA.
-ENDS-
