# Attendees
- Kareem Galal (ESS)
- Ornela Degiacomo (CERIC)
- Teodore Ivanoaica (ELI)
- Jean-Francois Perrin (ESRF)
- Rudolf Dimper (ESRF)

# Update
- Helpdesk topic discussed at length in last meeting, and seen as a building block for other topics
- Further discussion is needed to elaborate on othe topics not fully discussed or defined yet


# Agenda
- Continue discussion and elaboration of various topics not covered in previous meeting
- Set Helpdesk topic as a priority for making real progress on:
  - we should create a full process on how the Helpdesk should be managed (and assign it as a task to be documented)
  - check with respective RIs on their plans/capabilities for Helpdesk integration
- Discussion on which topics are managed by which WP (WP6 and WP7)
  - AAI?
  - Helpdesk
  - Technical
  - etc...
- Plan for writing documentation/proposals for the various topics above, to iron out the process to follow for moving ahead with these topics
  - this will help in getting approval/endorsement, and allow for progress from previous discussions

# Discussion
- Helpdesk:
  - what is the process for managing the Helpdesk?
  - using a distribution list for each RI, to be used for contacting respective support personnel at each RI
  - We should also some kind of "shift manager" for ensuring tasks are assigned and worked on. It should be rotated.
  - in the description of the service: 
    - request from all services that they submit an email address for mangaging support requests (mandatory)
    - support requests should be submitted to a generic support email address, which will then be forwarded to the respective service (1st level email address)
    - 1st level support for managing incoming emails:
      - during PaNOSC: should be assigned to a single/group of people (or a single RI)
      - Post PaNOSC: to be discussed
  - discuss with WP7 on allocating resources for managing support requirements
  - Action: 
    - reach out to each RI and ask for a contact point for the provided services in Panosc and EOSC
    - provide a list of services that you will be supporting 
    - Kareem: speak to Thomas Rod (WP8) for pan-learning.org service. Could be used as an example for future services
  - depending on the load, a PaNOSC ticketing system could be considered at the current time. This will need to be implemented eventually. 

- AAI
  - every PaN service should implement UmbrellaID (mandatory)
  
- SLA/SLD
  - define metrics for answering ticket (eg. max 24hours), and resolving support tickets (eg. 4days)
  - metrics for downtime of services (max figures available for the community), and when they should be back up
  
      

# For next meeting
- revisit the definition of "community", and have it documented 
- review documentation/process on discussed topics above (Helpdesk, AAI, SLA)

