# Attendees
- Kareem Galal (ESS)
- Teodor Ivanoaica (ELI)
- Jean-Francois Perrin (ESRF)
- Rudolf Dimper (ESRF)
- Ornela DeGiacomo (CERIC)

# Agenda 
- revisit the definition of "community", and have it documented 
- review documentation/process on discussed topics above (Helpdesk, AAI, SLA)
- analysis on availble business models (to be provided by Ornela)

# Discussion
- Helpdesk
  - Helpdesk document available at: 
  https://docs.google.com/document/d/1ZN7_2lIZLB4-UqNzRJYFrPKjR2f9f_ztqhNVa-cCjBc/edit#
  - the above googel document needed to be updated as the outlined Email ONLY model did not include a Helpdesk componnent
  - the following 2 solutions (models) were agreed to be used and put forward:
    - one email per service (1st model): This uses a direct email address to the respective service provider (RI) of a service
    - generic helpdesk email (2nd model): This required a functioning Helpdesk ticketing system up and running. This will require more resources which 
    are not available right now
  - Ultimately: we MUST have a ticketing system in place
  - PaN Portal:
    - what is the definition of the PaN Portal? It's not defined anywhere
    - should be discussed with ExPanDS
    - Constitutes an independent topic/task outside the scope of WP6 and the current work
    - A question should be presented to the PMC about the PaN Portal, for the idea to be circulated and discussed. Only preliminary concept.
    

# For next meeting
- update Helpdesk document to include both "email only" and "Helpdesk" models
