Attendees:
- Kareem Galal (ESS)
- Rudolf Dimper (ESRF)
- Jean-Francois Perrin (ESRF)
- Teodore Ivanoaica (ELI)


Update:
- Presentation to PMC on 17/3/2021:
https://github.com/panosc-eu/panosc/blob/master/Work%20Packages/WP6%20EOSC%20Integration/Service%20Definition/Service%20Definition%20-%20%20PMC%20-%20v2.pptx
- Feedback from presentation by PMC:
  - to get feedback regarding questions, an online survey should be created and sent to relevant WPs
  - Sustainability: should be managed by WP7's current work
  - Ornela (WP7): is happy to have a joint group for further discussions
  - Sophie Servan (ExPaNDS): will send me details of who should be involved from ExPanDs.

Agenda:
- Discuss feedback from PMC presentation
- plan work ahead for each of the topics below:
  - Access / AAI
  - Accounting
  - SLA/KPIs
  - Helpdesk 
  - Sustainability
  - Technical
  - Federated Services



Discussion:



For next meeting:
