## Attendees
- Kareem Galal (ESS)
- Teodor Ivanoaica (ELI)
- Jean-Francois Perrin (ESRF)


## Agenda 
- review the single document created from available topics (Helpdesk, AAI and SLA)
  - https://docs.google.com/document/d/1nRQMZYSHrkpSttUl_SHWPuv-6-x6bRYBgRImW-at7NM/edit?usp=sharing
- revisit the definition of "community", and have it documented


## Discussion
- Reviewed and updated the single document mentioned above
- added a new heading for the User Community, containing different definitions of the "community"
- the google document will be discussed in the next fortnightly WP6 meeting (22/6/2021), before presenting it to the PMC for validation


## For next meeting
- to be decided later
