PaNOSC Project Management Committee meeting - 06/10/2021 
========================================================


Attendees
-------
Jordi (ESRF), Andy (ESRF), Jean-Francois (ESRF), Jamie (ILL), Stuart(ILL), Jesper (ESS), Petra(ESS), Stuart (ILL), Teodor (ELI), Rudolf (ESRF), Nicoletta (CERIC), Dario (CERIC), Giuseppe (EGI), Erwan (ILL) and Sophie (ExPaNDS)


Minutes
-------	

**1. Update on [D8.1 - Report on lessons learned](https://docs.google.com/document/d/1VJg_BWmWUEJYWtU65mO_p-PFNMEBxOAx/edit?dls=true) and Workshop to collect them**

Teodor reported that the workshop will take place 08/11 and 09/11 and that the agenda will be available in Indico soon. The idea is to complete the document and discuss best practices and challenges.

Jordi asked when the deliverable will be ready and Teodor replied that it should be ready by 25/11

**2. Face to face meeting in Copenhagen**

Jordi reported that the meeting will take place from Monday 29/11 midday (starting with a lunch at the meeting place) and will finish on Tuesday 30/11 13:00 (finishing with lunch). 

Andy added that the agenda will be in Indico later on in the day, with a detailed agenda to come in the following weeks. An email invitation will be sent today as well.

Jordi added that the meeting will take place in the Kon Arthur hotel in central Copenhagen, and that the goal is to prepare well the last year of project execution.

**3. Updates on PaNOSC/ExPaNDS Symposium + answers from LEAPS/GA**

Nicoletta explained that PaNOSC has the three scientists to present use cases (Petr, Mousumi and Yue) and that 51 people were already registered. Jordi added that he invited the PaNOSC Project Officer to attend and Sophie explained that so far ExPaNDS has confirmed one scientist with use case.

Regarding the LEAPS/GA Andy reported that he has obtained some answers to the questions he asked to the LEAPS members with other missing. Sophie added that ExPaNDS members of LEAPS will reply in due time. 


**4. News from ExPaNDS**

Sophie reported ongoing work for a grant amendement on its dissemination WP. As part of the amendment, the planned ExPaNDS User Meeting (which was planned as a face to face event) will be replaced with online events, promotion of use cases, interviews and videos, more like PaNOSC has been doing. Sophie added that user offices at the different facilities will also be more involved to aid in the communication of the projects outcomes.

Andy asked whether it would be a good idea to put a joint brochure together so the message we communicate is consistent. Nicoletta replied that PaNOSC had a brochure and that it would be a good idea to update it. Sophie said that a fact-sheet per outcome of the projects would be a good idea.

**5. News from EOSC Future**

Rudolf reported that the EOSC Association has over 150 members, 60+ observers and that when asked for volunteers for the task forces had a very positive response rate (all seats in the task forces have been allocated).

Work is ongoing at the EOSC Association to define topics for the Work Programme 23-24, and collaboration with the EOSC Future to define the CFT for services to run the EOSC Association. 

The EOSC Assocaition will have its estatus amended (in the GA planned for December).

EOSC Future will have a 6 months review 14/10 and will demostrate UmbrellaId. Another task is onboarding of data portals in the EOSC Portal, so instead of having links to services the service can be consumed directly from the EOSC Portal. Andy recommended Rudolf to talk to Tobias (WP3) and himself (WP2) for help with that. Sophie added that Alun (ExPaNDS WP3) may be a good contact too.

Rudolf finished his point in the agenda by saying that the EOSC Future WP6 about Science Packages is advancing slower than originally planned. 


**6. Update on progress with upcoming deliverables**

Jordi reminded everyone of the upcoming deliverables. He also announced that very soon he will share in Google Drive the current D1.8, so everyone can collaborate.
Jean-François reported that WP6 deliverables (D6.2 and D6.3) should be ready on time.
Andy reported that D2.2 is ongoing and should start D2.4 soon.
Rudolf reported that there is a meeting of WP7 the following day to advance with D7.2

**7. Use Cases Dashboard reminder**

Jordi reported the current status of the Use Cases dashboard:

| Partner | Use Cases Submitted | Comments |
| ------- | ------------------- | -------- |
| ESRF  |  6  | 2 planned   |
| ILL   |  1  | 3 planned  | of which 1 w CERIC and EGI)
| ESS   |  2  |   |
| XFEL  |  7  |   |
| CERIC |  6  | of which 1 with ILL and EGI, 3 planned |
| ELI   |  1  | 1 planned  |
| EGI   |  1  | of which 1 with CERIC and ILL | 

He reminded everyone that the use cases are important, as they show that the work that we are doing in PaNOSC is known and used by our facilities' users. If the facilities cannot get use cases that signals a lack of communiation with the users/scientists, lack of interests and highlights a disconnect between the project and the community that should serve. How can be sure that we are doing something useful if we cannot get any of the potential users to confirm this?

Andy added that he is dissapointed with the lack of intestest in use cases by certain partners and added that if we cannot engage with users and connect with them everything being done risks being wasted (as it may never be used).


**8. WP leaders other updates**

* **WP1 - Management** : Jordi reported that he requires by early November a forecast of spending, so this information can be used in the Copenhagen meeting.

Jordi also said that a report on all the spending up until the end of November (M36) will be requested 1st of December and ideally this information will be shared before the Xmas break, so it can be used in the upcoming Periodic Report (which will be due end of January).

In order to complete the Periodic Report Jordi will also ask all WPs to update the KPIs and .

Jordi finished his intervention by saying that he met the PO the previous Friday to explain him the nature of the project, where we are and invite him to the Symposium.

Giuseppe asked whether the reports and forecast need to consolidate linked 3rd parties or be specific for each one of them and Jordi replied that for him a Consolidated view will be enough (as it would be to EGI to manage its linked third parties). Giuseppe also asked about the status of the budget shift towards EGI to contribute to WP7 and Jordi explained that the decision was made. He recommended Giuseppe to attend the WP7 meetings and double check if required.

* **WP4 - Data Analysis** : Jamie reported VIDA deployment progress, with ELI going to have OpenStack, ESRF working towards deploying VISA and ESS looking into it. He explained that a new release of VISA with improved admin features is ready and a demo showing how to deploy VISA.

Andy asked wehtehr EGI will deploy VISA and Giuseppe replied that they are a waiting demand requests, but they have the resources. Jean-François said that the idea is that each partner deploys VISA at their own infrastructure and that it is a bit early for EGI

* **WP9 - Communication** :  Nicoleta reminded everyone that the deadline to submit abstracts for the [16th International Conference on Surface x-ray and Neutron Scattering (SXN16)](https://www.sxns16.org/) is 22nd of October.

-ENDS-
