PaNOSC Project Management Committee meeting - 06/01/2021
========================================================


Attendees
-------
Jordi (ESRF), Andy (ESRF), Jean-Francois (ESRF), Rudolf (ESRF), Teodor (ELI), Stuart (ILL), Sandor (XFEL), Petra (ESS), Ornela (CERIC), Tobias (ESS) and Patrick (ExPaNDS)


Minutes
-------	

Jordi wished a happy new year to all the attendees and asked whether any changes to the agenda were required. Rudolf said that he would like to rename the 2nd point of the agenda (EOSC Future) to "EOSC Association and EOSC Future news".

**1. WP leaders other updates**

* WP1 - Management: Jordi reported that he has been absent since the last PMC meeting, however he would continue to ask all WP leaders to complete the required information on risks and KPIs.  During January work on updating the PaNOSC DMP will start and Jordi will also contact partners to check that commitments made following the internal spending review are achieved.

* WP2 - Data Policy and Stewardship: Andy reported that there were no WP meetings since the last PMC. The deliverable is still in draft status and to be finished (the target is that the final document would be practical guidelines). Regarding the milestone, CERIC-ERIC has adopted the DP Framework, Teodor added that once the ELI ERIC is in place (expected by the end of January 2021), the data policy would be adopted as everything is ready. Andy reported that at the ESRF after a review only minor changes to the existing Data Policy are required and that hopefully these could be done without requiring Council approval. For the other partners it is less clear what is required, however for some of them some actions have been taken towards implementing the data policy.

Patrick asked whether at the ESRF the DP changes need to go through the legal department to which Rudolf and Andy replied that this is automatic when Council is involved, but would otherwise be up to our appreciation.

* WP3 - Data Catalogue Services: Tobias reported no progress since the last PMC in December 2020, however for the next few weeks he expects some work on the demostrator, so it can be shown to work with realistic data.

* WP4 - Sandor was absent. Stuart reported a 2nd iteration on the portal, a new staff member at the ILL starting and a meeting next week to talk about microservices for the portal. Andy reported that the HDF association has contacted PaNOSC as they want to apply for NASA funding (the funding is only available for USA-based entities) to work together improving the HDF5 viewer.

* WP5 - Virtual Neutron and X-ray Laboratory (VINYL: Juncheng and Carsten were absent. Andy reported a video interview of Mads linked to WP5 and WP9.

* WP6 - EOSC Integration: Jean-François reported on ongoing activities to prepare the technical workshop with ESCAPE (next Tuesday 12/01/2021). A presentation on the data lake will be made by ESCAPE which will be useful to better assess whether it can fulfil the requirements of PaNOSC. There is also activity to prepare training on UmbrellaID with PSI and Géant. This training will be very technical (currently the training is scheduled for 04-05 February 2021). KPI work is done and work on reviewing the risks is still pending.

Regarding D6.4 the ILL is working on it. Stuart confirmed that work is ongoing, with an estimated delivery date of end of March. Andy will be sending an email to our Project Officer explaining that some deliverables are delayed and their estimated new dates.

Jean-François asked who should be listed as Service Provider when registering services for the EOSC. It was agreed that this is a good point that needs to be discussed in the PMC with all partners present to ensure a consistent and well thought approach. [Issue #70](https://github.com/panosc-eu/panosc/issues/70) has been created for this item.

* WP7 - Sustainability: Ornela was absent. Jordi reported that next Wednesday 13th January 2021 there will be a WP7 meeting at 11:00h. Ornela wrote an email to Jordi stating that "there were no meetings since last PMC. The internal milestone of the cost collection, as stated during last PMC, was not reached. Hopefully, this will not impact in the final delivery date."

* WP8 - Staff and User Training: Thomas was absent. Petra reported that a Post-doc has been hired and has started at ESS, focusing on WP8. Petra also said that trainings are scheduled: 2-4 Febraury 2021: [1st Train the Trainers online internal workshop](https://www.panosc.eu/events/panosc-expands-internal-workshop-train-the-trainers-1/) and also 23-24 March 2021: [2nd Train the Trainer online internal workshop](https://www.panosc.eu/events/panosc-expands-internal-workshop-train-the-trainers-2/)

*WP9 - Outreach and Communication: Nicoletta was absent. Andy reported that Nicoletta has been very active, with more news published, the interview with Mads, etc. The use case form is now available in our website and some pages in the website have been identified for updating.
It was briefly discussed that the User Cases form is for users to submit their needs, so we do not expect very technical requirements. WP leaders would then review these use cases and go back to the users that submitted them as required.

**2. EOSC Association and EOSC Future update**

Rudolf reported that the EOSC Association hold its [General Assembly 17/12/2020](https://www.eoscsecretariat.eu/news-opinion/european-open-science-cloud-takes-step-forward-new-association) and that now has a president and 8 directors elected, with a full-time General Secretary to be hired. 

Fees were decided, with the aim of raising 1.5M€ to ensure that the association has an operation budget and can build up a little bit of reserves as required by Belgium law. The fees are:
* for the 142 members 10k€ / year
* for the 49 observers 2k€ / year

Two main activities were also discussed:
1. Setting up a Memorandum of Understanding (MoU) with the European Commission on the EOSC Partnership
2. Continue working on the SRIA for the future work programmes of Horizon Europe

Andy said that the EOSC Association is not the owner of the EOSC but rather an advisory body and asked what impact we could expect from the EOSC Association in PaNOSC / ExPaNDS to which Rudolf replied that due to timing he expects impact from EOSC Future but not from the EOSC Association.

Regarding the EOSC Future project, Rudolf explained that after the proposal was accepted in 2020, feedback from the Commission to the Coordinator (Technopolis) required re-scoping the project for the grant agreement. He expects that by the end of January a rewritten proposal addressing the feedback received will be submitted, which will then hopefully result in a grant agreement signature.

Rudolf clarified to Patrick that the composition of the consortium for EOSC Future remains the same.

-ENDS-
