PaNOSC Project Management Committee meeting - 12/05/2021 
========================================================


Attendees
-------
Jordi (ESRF), Andy (ESRF), Jean-Francois (ESRF), Erwan (ILL), Jamie (ILL), Stuart (ILL), Nicoletta (CERIC), Ornela (CERIC), Dario (CERIC), Fabio (XFEL), Carsten (XFEL), Thomas (ESS), Tobias (ESS), Emiliano (CERIC), Alessandro (CERIC) and Patrick(DESY, ExPaNDS)


Minutes
-------	

**1. WP3 - Current Status, Challenges and Actions Required**

The WP3 review started with a [presentation](https://github.com/panosc-eu/panosc/blob/master/Work%20Packages/WP9%20Outreach%20and%20communication/Presentations/PaNOSC_WP3_review_20210512.pdf) by Andy that was followed by the Tobias' WP leader update and status report.

During his presentation Andy showed that WP3 is at the core of PaNOSC (being the 2nd largest WP in terms of budget), with strong links to WP4, WP5 and WP6. 

WP3 is also very strongly related to FAIR, with its work supporting each one of the requirements for data to be considered FAIR (Findable, Accessible, Interoperable and Reusable), such as the Search API, Catalog, Metadata and Ontology work.

As each partner has a different catalog the only realistic course of action was to develop a layer on top to ensure compatibility and a Federated Search API working accross all the different catalogs (in production by M40).

It was presented that the Search API will work well if data is well curated, with that being a key challenge. It was also highlighted that the effort to help deploy catalog services is non-neglegible.

As main issues the following were identified:
* Deployment of metadata catalogs
* Integrating Search API in the PaN Portal
* Deploying the search demostrator

WP3 will try to complete and update the (dashboard)[https://github.com/panosc-eu/panosc/wiki/Work-Packages-dashboards#wp3--data-catalog-services]

-ENDS-
