PaNOSC Project Management Committee meeting - 16/06/2021 
========================================================


Attendees
-------
Jordi (ESRF), Rudolf (ESRF), Andy (ESRF),  Jean-Francois (ESRF), Erwan (ILL), Stuart (ILL), Jamie (ILL), Fabio (XFEL), Thomas (ESS), Petra (ESS), Tobias (ESS), Teodor (ELI), Nicoletta (CERIC), Dario (CERIC), Ornela (CERIC) and Roberto (CERIC)


Minutes
-------	

At the start of the meeting we reminded everyone of the upcoming meetings:
* 23/06: WP7 - Sustainability Review
* 30/06: PMC
* 07/07: WP6 - EOSC Integration Review
* **no meeting 14/07**
* 21/07: possible PMC, to be confirmed end of June/early July

**1. Planning a new EB meeting**

Jordi explained that a new meeting of the Executive Board is being planned and that one of the topics will be discussed is the 3rd Internal Financial Report and the financial position of PaNOSC, however more subjects for the agenda are needed.

Ornela, Andy and Rudolf among others contributed the following ideas:
* Internal Financial Report
* Sustainability: LEAPS/LENS vs PaNOSC
* Interaction with other science clusters
* Use Cases
* How is PaNOSC going to engage/coordinate with EOSC Future? (this includes the post-PaNOSC timeframe)

**2. How is PaNOSC going to engage/coordinate with EOSC Future?**

Rudolf agreed to make a presentation for the next PMC (30th of June), so everyone has a clear view of EOSC Future.

The PMC agreed with Andy's suggestion to have a ExPaNDS news standing item in the agenda.

**3. Draft documents for D6.4 and supporting document for MS3.3**

Teodor explained that MS3.3 will be ready very soon (before mid-July for sure) and Jean-François explained that D6.4 is finished and that he will share today a final version to upload.

**4. Update on the annual meeting organisation**

Jordi explained that ExPaNDS and PaNOSC representatives met to discuss the annual meeting organisation. As of today, the dates will be either 26-27-28 or 27-28-29 October 2021 but still to be confirmed.

Rudolf asked if the Annual Meeting will be combined with an EB meeting? Jordi said yes and Rudolf recommended to share the dates already so everyone can block it in their agendas.

Ornela explained that the General Assembly of CERIC has been every year 27th of October and therefore CERIC staff are unlikely to be able to travel (a remote participation may be possible though).

Andy also explaiend that so far no speakers have been asked to participate and together with Rudolf went through a list of possible candidates involved in EOSC-related initiatives (like EOSC Future).

Nico also asked everyone to share the names of users and scientists that are already using their services so they can be invited/considered as speakers.

**5. Possible hackathon ?**

Andy explained that it seems to him a good idea to organise a hackathon with IT people getting together and sharing know-how and approaches for setting up the different servies PaNOSC is creating, for example to help other IT professionals install the PaN Portal/VISA or invite scientists to teach them how to use the tools available.

Jordi pointed out that this could be a very good idea if we have a service mature enough with some scientists using it (but other scientists missing out and willing to learn).

Teodor said that he would be happy to help with the hackathon and bring people from ELI. He also eplaiend that there is an ELI Summer school and that WP5 simulation services will be presented.

**6. Use Cases Dashboard**

Jordi showed the table in the agenda and receied the following feedback:
* ESS has submitted a use case (so they have now 2)
* CERIC has submitted a use case (so they have now 5)

With these updates the summary table is:

| Partner | Use Cases Submitted | Comments |
| ------- | ------------------- | -------- |
| ESRF  |  5  | 1 planned   |
| ILL   |  1  | 3 planned  | 1 w CERIC and EGI)
| ESS   |  2  |   |
| XFEL  |  7  | 2 planned |
| CERIC |  5  | 1 w ILL and EGI, 4 planned |
| ELI   |  1  | 1 planned  |
| EGI   |  1  | 1 w CERIC and ILL | 

Jordi reminded everyone that the target is **10 user cases per partner**, and that in most cases we are still very far from the target.

**5. WP leaders updates**

**WP8 - Tranining**: Thomas reported being contacted by the European Scattering Association as they want to know more about the training/learning that we do in the WP.

Thomas also explained that it would be good to have a joint domain name for the ExPaNDS training catalog and pan-learning e-learning portal, to which Andy said that it would be good to have a name that is fit for the future once PaNOSC is over. Jean-François explained that pan.science is available and Andy explained that https://pan-training.hzdr.de/ already exists. Thomas said that in any case, what is difficult about the training/learning is maintaining and sustaining the website/contents.

Thomas reported ongoing work with Teodor on D8.1 which all going well will be ready for internal review by the end of June.

** WP9 - Communication**: Nicoletta did not have much to report. She explained that videos related to CERIC techniques were uploaded and that she shared with the mailing list some upcoming events, like Rudolf talking in the EOSC Symposium. Ornella explaiend that the work programme will be presented next week and that there may be specific calls which we could discuss at PMC level.

Nicoletta finished by asking to be contacted when there is something that can be highlighted or showcased via a video to which Fabio replied that maybe something could be done with VISA.

**WP4 - Data Analysis Services** : Fabio reported the code sharing of the PaN Portal  in [GitHub](https://github.com/panosc-portal). Stuart added that the code is available to everyone from today and that work will continue in a demo soon, which will be done over the summer, so all going well this demo will be ready at some point in September.

This was followed by a short discussion on what license to use (GPL, BSD, EST, etc.) to which no conclusion was reached.


**WP5 - ViNYL** : Carsten was absent. Thomas reported that WP5 is going to try to request use of external resources for simulation and Fabio that SIMEX work is ongoing and will generate a user case. Andy took the opportunity to say that SIMEX has a source setup issue when used for synchrotrons.

**WP6 - EOSC Integration**: Jean-François reported that a presentation about authentication with UmbrellaId has been moved to September. CBMFS work is ongoing but there are issues (like for OneData) for the deployment. Jean-François will distribute a document so this topic can be discussed on the next PMC meeting.

Thomas added that AAI still does not work for pan-learning with UmbrellaId.

**WP7 - Sustainability**: Ornela reported that interviews with the partners have finished and that now at WP7 they know what to do with the cost collection results. They are a bit behind scheduled (a draft should be ready by now) but she is confident that they are still on track to submit the deliverable on time.

Ornela reported that discussions on business models have started and that this will be explained during the WP7 review. She poitned out that regarding the earlier point of the EB meeting, CERIC-ERIC is not in LENS/LEAPS and she is not sure if ELI is in them either.

Rudolf said that RIs are stable and they are the best candidates to pick up the outputs from PaNOSC and maintain them, with LENS/LEAPS being an existing association of RIs. Rudolf went on to propose a Memorandum of Understanding (MOU) for each service that needs to be maintained post-PaNOSC, so all RIs can see who uses/benefits from the service and the cost / work required to maintain it. Ornela replied that an MOU per product would lead to many MOUs and that a bigger agreement is required to which Rudolf replied that the bigger and more complex the MOU is, the less specific it becomes which risks senior management not wanting to be involved in something not specific/targeted.

Teodor made the last contribution to the meeting saying that the ELI Data Policy is to be presented to DG and all going well it may be approved in September.

-ENDS-
