PaNOSC Project Management Committee meeting - 22/09/2021 
========================================================


Attendees
-------
Jordi (ESRF), Andy (ESRF), Jean-Francois (ESRF), Jamie (ILL), Stuart(ILL), Fabio (XFEL), Thomas (ESS), Jesper (ESS), Carsten (XFEL), Petra(ESS), Tobias (ESS), Stuart (ILL), Teodor (ELI), Ornela (CERIC), Nicoletta (CERIC) and Sophie (ExPaNDS)


Minutes
-------	

Jordi explained that the point 6 of the agenda will not take place as Rudolf is not available today. 

**1. Update on [D8.1 - Report on lessons learned](https://docs.google.com/document/d/1VJg_BWmWUEJYWtU65mO_p-PFNMEBxOAx/edit?dls=true) and Workshop to collect them**

Jordi explained that a meeting took place between Andy, Teodor, Thomas and himself to talk about the document. As people have not contributed so far and there is plenty on knowledget to gather, WP8 is proposing to organise an online workshop.

Teodor reported that he is already working on the agenda for the workshop, which will likely be two half days (possible dates are the 8th and 9th of November). The workshop will help with the deliverable and also answer the question of what training is requried in order to manage scientific data.

Andy asked whether external experts will be invited and Teodor replied that he is planning to talk with FAIRsFAIR. On top of that he will ask the desired attendees that will be invited to ask in their facility for their data managers so they can join too.

Andy and Teodor also explained that it is mandatory for attendees to fill in their section on [D8.1 - Report on lessons learned](https://docs.google.com/document/d/1VJg_BWmWUEJYWtU65mO_p-PFNMEBxOAx/edit?dls=true) ahead of the meeting.

**2. Face to face meeting in Copenhagen**

Jordi reported a meeting that took place between Petra, Thomas, Andy and him regarding the possibility of a face to face meeting in Copenhagen. Jordi has shared a dooddle, the idea being that all WP leaders and partner representatives attend (up to 15 attendees in total) in order to analyse the work to be done in the last year of project execution and any issues in order to acomplish the desired outcomes of PaNOSC.

Petra and some of her ESS colleagues need to reserve some meeting rooms in a central Copenhagen hotel, therefore it is imperative that everyone invited fill in the doodle.

**3. Feedback on the Work Programme**

Jordi explained that during last PMC meeting we briefly spoke about the need to provide feedback on the Work Programme to the EC, so topics that interest us can be taken into account for future funding.

Andy shared today a document compiled with other cluster projects and explained that this has been shared wit hthe EOSC Association and will be shared with ESFRI in order to let them speak with the EC.

Ornela pointed out that some content of the document overlaps with functions of the EOSC Association and shared her concern about duplication of effort.


**4. Updates on PaNOSC/ExPaNDS Symposium**

Jordi reminded everyone of the Symposium scheduled for the morning of Tuesday 26th of October and that PaNOSC will have to provide 3 scientists that will present real use cases.

Fabio replied that he contacted Yue Sun for Machine Learning (see [use case #3](https://www.panosc.eu/use-cases/use-case-3-machine-learning-based-spectra-classification/)). 

Teodor reported that Mousumi will present a use case related to WP8 which will be submitted very soon.

Nicoletta reported that she is recontacting Petr, as she has not heard from him for a while (however he did say that he would do it in the past).

Andy added that if anything fails he thinks he can get an ESRF scientist to present a use case.

**5. News from ExPaNDS**

Sophie reported that a deliverable related to training is due in a few days, focusing on the landscape of different tools available. She explained that ExPaNDS will use pan-learning and also a learning catalog based on ELEXIA training platform. She raised the issue that there is not a common look and feel or landing page, which may be confusing for users to which Thomas replied that some PaNOSC contributors in WP5 and WP8 are planning a meeting to deal with this and have a single landing page.

Teodor explaiend that some technological aspects need to be solved to unify the training catalog and pan-learning.

Andy took the opportunity to thank Sophie for [presenting with him to LEAPS](https://github.com/panosc-eu/panosc/blob/master/Work%20Packages/WP9%20Outreach%20and%20communication/Presentations/LEAPS%20Data%20Strategy%20-%20the%20future%20of%20the%20ExPaNDS%20and%20PaNOSC%20projects_17092021.pdf).

**6. News from EOSC Future**

Item removed from the agenda.


**7. Update on progress with upcoming deliverables**

Jordi reported that he has started working on *D1.8 - report on annual workshop 3*. This year we will not have an annual meeting, so the deliverable will focus on the status of the project and WPs, summary of the Executive Board meeting and report of the Symposium. Jordi will make it available online soon so all WP leaders can contribute.

Andy reported that a draft of *D2.2 - DMP Template* is available in Google drive and gathering contributions. Regarding *D2.4 - Integration of the policy* he has no news. Ornela added that she will check progress with Alessandro at CERIC. Andy also reported a WP2 meeting scheduled for next week.

Jean-Fran√ßois reported that work for *D6.2 - Compute cloud report* and *D6.3 AAI report* has been organised and distributed.

Ornela reported that a rough draft will be ready this week and that she expects to complete the deliverable ahead of the deadline for submission.

**8. Update on max. transfers within PaNOSC**

Ornela reported that she has checked that that there is not maximum amount that can be transfered as long as *Subcontracting* is not involved in the change. Of course, all change has to be justified and increasing or decreasing the contribution to a task surely must be related with a transfer of money.

Ornela asked about spending plans for the last year of PaNOSC execution and Jordi explained that he plans to report this to the Executive Board together with the status of expenditure up until 31/11/2021. Jordi will be asking all partners their spending plans for the last year of the project and also their status at the end of November. 

**9. Use Cases Dashboard**

Jordi reminded everyone to talk to their scientist colleagues and get use cases submitted. The target is for each partner to submit 10 use cases (70 in total) and we have less than half that number so far (24).

Andy added that submitting use cases is one way to engage with scientists and getting them to check the work PaNOSC is doing for them.

**8. WP leaders updates**

* **WP5 - Vinyl** : Carsten reported ongoing work in the instrument database and a meeting with Aljosa and Juncheng on OASYS. He also said that he would like to meet with people working on workflows at the different facilities to present them WP5. Sophie said that ExPaNDS does not have the work of WP5 in its project and that the presentation could be interesting for them as well. 
* **WP9 - Communication** :  Nicoleta reported that the section of women in science in the PaNOSC website doesn't have enough contact and encouraged everyone to contact their female colleagues (not only scientists but data managers and others as well). Andy added that each facility should provide some names.  Nicoletta also reported work on a promotional video ongoing and a change in the use cases section of the [public website](https://www.panosc.eu/all-use-cases/). She also reported plans to take part in two user meatings (ELI-Alps and ELI-Beamlines). She ended up her contribution asking whether a WP9 internal review is required.
* **WP2 - Data Policy** : Andy reported ongoing work on DMPs which is progressing well.
* **WP4 - Data Analysis** : Fabio  reported the start of presentations on VISA deployment at partner sites. Since then, a troubleshooting page for VISA deployment has been made available. There are plans for a meeing on the topic of Federated Search API.
* **WP3 - Data Catalogue Services** : Tobias reported work on the search scoring and deployment of the Search API. Andy added that one of the key objectives of PaNOSC is to integrate the Search API in the VISA portal (WP3 delivering the API and maybe WP4 delivering the front end?).
* **WP7 - Sustainability** : Ornela reported work focusing on the upcoming deliverables while some work is done in paralled about teh business model.

-ENDS-
