PaNOSC Project Management Committee Meeting - 22/09/2021 
=========================================================

Agenda
------	

1. Update on [D8.1 - Report on lessons learned](https://docs.google.com/document/d/1VJg_BWmWUEJYWtU65mO_p-PFNMEBxOAx/edit?dls=true)

2. Feedback on the Work Programme

3. Updates on PaNOSC/ExPaNDS Symposium and Annual Meeting
    * Scientists to present use cases at symposium (Petr Čermák + 2 more required)
    * Polls during the event / presentations

4. News from ExPaNDS (~5 min)

5.  News from EOSC (~5 min)

6. Update on progress with upcoming deliverables
* D1.8 - Report of annual workshop 3 (ESRF)
* D2.2 - DMP Template (ESS) -> Jean-François can review it
* D2.4 - Integration of the policy (CERIC-ERIC)
* D6.2 - Compute cloud report (ELI-DC) -> Thomas can review it
* D6.3 - AAI report (ILL) -> Erwan/Jamie can review it
* D7.2 - Photon and Neutron EOSC metrics (CERIC-ERIC)
* Fabio, Petra and Teodor offered to review as well.

7. Update on max. transfers within PaNOSC (Dario)

8. Use Cases Dashboard reminder (~1 min)

| Partner | Use Cases Submitted | Comments |
| ------- | ------------------- | -------- |
| ESRF  |  5  | 3 planned   |
| ILL   |  1  | 3 planned  | of which 1 w CERIC and EGI)
| ESS   |  2  |   |
| XFEL  |  7  |   |
| CERIC |  6  | of which 1 with ILL and EGI, 3 planned |
| ELI   |  1  | 1 planned  |
| EGI   |  1  | of which 1 with CERIC and ILL | 

9. WP leaders other updates

10. AOB




