PaNOSC Project Management Committee meeting - 23/06/2021 
========================================================


Attendees
-------
Jordi (ESRF), Rudolf (ESRF), Andy (ESRF),  Jean-Francois (ESRF), Stuart (ILL), Jamie (ILL), Fabio (XFEL), Thomas (ESS), Tobias (ESS), Teodor (ELI), Nicoletta (CERIC), Dario (CERIC), Ornela (CERIC), Teodor (ELI) and Florian (ELI)


Minutes
-------	

**1. WP7 presentation by Andy and Ornela**

Andy and Ornela jointly presented some [PowerPoint slides](https://github.com/panosc-eu/panosc/blob/master/Work%20Packages/WP7%20Sustainability/Supporting%20material/PaNOSC_WP7_review_20210623.pptx) and highlighted the fact that **sustainability concerns all work packages** and while it is not a big work package in terms of budget/effort it is important (and we are lucky to have thought to spare some time and budget for this at the time of the proposal).

In total, the Sustainability WP has around 56PMs allocated and includes the participation of all partners (originally EGI was not planned to contribute but it was agreed that they will contribute up to 3PMs financed by CERIC-ERIC and ELI).

Andy explained that PUMA (to help identify impact from research facilities) which was at some point thought that could be sustained through PaNOSC finally is supported by another EU-funded project (STREAMLINE @ ESRF).

T7.1 is now completed with the other three tasks ongoing. The next deliverable is due in November 2021 (month 36).

It was also highlighted how this WP relies on the EOSC approach to sustainability and funding that the EOSC will provide, in particular was worrying that the EOSC Sustainability Report does not include long-term storage and no new funding for Research Infrastructures.

Andy and Ornela listed the main items of what need to be sustained and discussed that it is still not decided what is the best approach to do so (possible business models including multiples Memorandums of Understanding between partners or several specific ones), however it was made very clear that the key to sustainability is to have services in production that are widely used in the community. If a service is useful and provides value the RIs will find a way to make it sustainable.

The presentation continued by listing the main activities of the WPs and the main remaining issues to be addressed in the WP.

Towards the end of the meeting 
* it was agreed that it would be a good idea for WP leaders to be interviewed by Ornela about sustainability of their WP outputs
* it was discussed again that LEAPS and LENS will have to play an important role for sustainining services of common interest for the PaN community and eventually the EOSC.

-ENDS-
