PaNOSC Project Management Committee meeting - 17/02/2021 
========================================================


Attendees
-------
Jordi (ESRF), Andy (ESRF), Jean-Francois (ESRF), Rudolf (ESRF), Teodor (ELI), Jamie (ILL), Nicoletta (CERIC), Tobias (ESS) Carsten (XFEL), Juncheng (XFEL), Florian (ELI), Sandor (XFEL) and Sophie (ExPaNDS)


Minutes
-------	

At the start of the meeting Rudolf requested to add one point to the agenda: 

* A. EOSC Future

Sandor also noted an error in the agenda, which Jordi corrected.

**1. Text and supporting documents for  MS8.4 and MS6.2**

Jordi reminded WP8 colleagues that before he can tick the milestone as achieved in the EU Portal he would like to have a short paragraph to support (to add in the EU Portal) and also a supporting document (this could be very short, just linking the source code repository and a couple of paragraphs). 

Florian replied that WP8 will provide the required information so the achieved milestone can be recorded in the EU portal as achieved.

For MS6.2 Jean-François reported that ILL and ESS registered as service providers using the available form, however there is not answer from the EOSC team. Nicoletta added that CERIC's registration is also pending approval by the EOSC. Jean-François said that he will contact again the EOSC Team (which it is believed may be made by EGI staff). Rudolf asked Jean-François to add him and Tiziana in Copy of the email as this may help speeding up the approval of the registration.

It was agreed that all partners should register as service providers, so anyone wanting to register a service in the EOSC later on would already have this first step completed. Jean-François offered to provide guidance / short meeting to anyone requesting it.

Andy repeated the point that MS6.2 is terribly late and that we can be forced to make a grant agreement due to a delayed milestone. He estated that it is of the utmost importance to register the two services in the EOSC immediately and that while we wait for EOSC feedback, the supporting paragraph and document that Jordi requests should be prepared.


**2. WP leaders other updates**


* WP3 - Data Catalogue Services: Tobias reported the deliverable being under control (no delay forecasted), with weekly meetings taking place. Partners are working in the Search API. Jordi asked if a version of the deliverable ready for review would be ready by mid-March and Tobias said yes.
Andy asked about the ESRF contribution to the WP and Tobias reported that a big piece of work was completed in the ESRF end.

* WP4 - Sandor reported no issues, with a new verion of the portal planned by the end of December. Meetings with ExPaNDS to define new harmonised KPIs for which a snapshot will be taken towards the end of March. Andy asked whether Sandor has looked and contributed to the document from Anton (**ANDY, can you please link it**) and Sandor replied that not yet.


* WP5 - Virtual Neutron and X-ray Laboratory (VINYL): Juncheng and Carsten reported working towards the next deliverable, more Jupyter Notebookes and collaborating with WP4 to export simulated data to NeXuS. The path to follow towards the next milestones (due in M42) will be looked at and new internal milestones set up if required. Jordi asked about the ESRF's contribution to WP5 and Juncheng replied that no sizeable contribution took place in 2020, however in 2021 ESRF staff is attending meetings. Jordi asked to be informed of how the ESRF contribution is progressing. Andy will send to Carsten and Juncheng the details of the two ESRF staff involved in migrating Consyl to the cloud, which could be integrated within WP5.

* WP6 - EOSC Integration: Jean-François reported the [AAI training](https://www.panosc.eu/events/panosc-umbrellaid-technical-training/) from last week which received positive feedback from attendees. Work is ongoing with teh services description and he requested an slot in the PMC of mid-March (17/03) to talk aboutthis topic. Andy asked whether he is answering the request for feedback from EOSC Hub and Jean-François replied that no as there was very few interaction to which Andy replied that saying that would be  valuable feedback.

* WP7 - Sustainability: Ornela was absent. Florian reported issues with the cost collection. ILL and XFEL information is pending (some info from ELI is pending as well but he is working to obtain the data). This is very important as the cost collection is a key piece of information to support the business models and sustainability. Work in the sustainability report is about to start and there is a deliverable to be submitted in May, so it is very urgent to obtain this information. Otherwise, the option is to exclude some of the partners from the deliverable on metrics and costs and as a consequence, in the sustainability report. Jamie agreed to chase this information at the ILL, while XFEL's Management is reviewing the information before it can be provided.
Ornela interviewed all WP leaders for the sustainability plan, with exception of WP3 that is missing. It was agreed that Ornela will re-contact Tobias.

* WP8 - Staff and User Training: Thomas was absent. Florian reported the [train the trainer workshop](https://www.panosc.eu/events/panosc-expands-internal-workshop-train-the-trainers-1/) taking place. Feedback will be collected ahead of the 2nd session. A review of risks related to WP8 took place and work is ongoing to provide the missing information that Jordi requests to mark the milestone as achieved in the EU Portal. 

* WP9 - Outreach and Communication: Nicoletta reported interviews with Juncheng published and ore coming up (including on with a researched that uses SiMEX). She is also looking for apropriate journal to publish a report on the "train the trainer" workshop. Andy added that for recorded workshops and similar there are now "video journals" and this can be interested. Jordi reminded Nicoleta to use an open access journal. Nicoletta said that 23rd of April would be the RDA plenary meeting with a debate format fro some sessions and Sophie said that ExPaNDS is applying for SRI 2021. Nicoletta agreed to discuss with Sophie how PaNOSC and ExPaNDS can collaborate for the SRI meeting.

* WP1 - Management: Jordi reported arranging a meeting with Nicoletta to discuss the publication of the KPIs so far collected. Jordi also continues trying to obtain updated Risk information and has contacted the PaNOSC partners about actions agreed last year in the Executive Board meeting. 

* WP2 - Data Policy and Stewardship: Andy reported issues with ILL participation in WP2. Jamie agreed to chase this topic at the ILL (and also ILL participation in WP7). D2.3 is pending further work to be formatted well (enough content available) and this is not advancing.


**New A. EOSC Future**

Rufolf reported that the 40 million project has had its proposal re-submitted last Friday and after the next (and fourth) round of evaluation is hoping that it will be finally fully approved. EOSC Future includes the clusters, E-Infrastructures and Technopolis in the management, with a very ambitious target. Further EOSC work depends on EOSC future, therefore it may be approved soon.

**3. Use cases**

Andy reported that the pace of submissions of Use Cases is too slow, with some partners not having submitted anything and very few people interested / proactive. Andy said that we must contact researchers and users to obtain information about use cases and get it submitted. If needed, we should submit on their behalf, making clear the researcher/user at the origin of the use case. Jamie commit to have a look at this and try to submit use cases for VISA and other existing tools at ILL, with Sophie saying that ExPaNDS data pipelines could also be a valid use case.

-ENDS-
