PaNOSC Project Management Committee meeting - 20/01/2021
========================================================


Attendees
-------
Jordi (ESRF), Andy (ESRF), Jean-Francois (ESRF), Rudolf (ESRF), Teodor (ELI), Jamie (ILL), Giuseppe (EGI), Petra (ESS), Ornela (CERIC), Tobias (ESS), Dario (CERIC), Nicoletta (CERIC), Florian (ELI), Juncheng (XFEL) and Sophie (ExPaNDS)


Minutes
-------	

At the start of the meeting it was decided to add some points on the agenda upon request from the attendees:

* A. Jordi requested to talk about an email received by our Project Officer
* B. Giuseppe wanted to talk about the remaining PMs left for the EGI foundation
* C. Andy requested to talk about use cases

**A. Email from our project officer**

Jordi reported that our PO answered an email from Andy informing him of the delays in some of our deliverables and milestones. René replied that it is good practice to inform him, and that it should be explained in the next report what has been delayed, why and whether there are any knock-on effects. He also said that he thinks in April PaNOSC will change of PO, but the change should be transparent for us.

Jordi explained that he understood that it is not a big deal to have minor delays as long as they do not delay the whole project. Andy added that while this is true for deliverables, our PO made clear that for milesontes that could involve a grant  amendment, which in this case has not been requested. Andy insisted in being extra careful with delayed milestones and urged everyone to accomplish them  (WP2 and WP6 have delayed milestones).

Jean-François explained that hte milestone for WP6 that is delayed he has registered PaNOSC as a service provider and he would like to submit the software catalog as soon as possible, even if that means that it is not exactly as we wanted it and it has to be modified later. Jordi pointed out that we have an issue open ([#70](https://github.com/panosc-eu/panosc/issues/70)) about who should be the service provider.

Nicoletta explained that there is an event 21/01/2021 about service providers: https://www.eosc-portal.eu/events/eosc-enhance-webinar-eosc-portal-new-release-tutorial-existing-providers

**B. EGI foundation PM left**
Giuseppe reported that EGI foundation has nearly exhausted the PM allocation for PaNOSC, however its linked third parties have spent very few. It is possible that DESY and STFC resolve the underspending, however for Cesnet is not so clear.
Giuseppe explained that STFC could shift 2 PMs into EGI foundation, however that won't be enough for EGI to continue collaborating until the end of the project.

Dario and Florian explained that it is possible to shift PMs between linked third parties and towards the main beneficiary without requesting a grant amendment, so that should be easy. 

Florian also shared a link to a guide that explain for H2020 projects when an amendment is required: https://ec.europa.eu/research/participants/data/ref/h2020/other/gm/h2020-guide-amend-types_en.pdf 

Jordi thanked Dario and Florian for clarifying this.

Andy, Giuseppe, Rudolf and Jean-François continued talking about whether resources would be needed from these linked third parties, whith Jean-François explaining that WP4 will attend a WP6 meeting to describe their needs, Andy adding that we have 100K€ reserved for commercial cloud resources and Rudolf adding that OCRE can provide some cloud funding. Andy also added that underspending in travel budget maybe could be converted into PMs

**C. Use cases**

Andy explained that the PaNOSC website can now be used to submit use cases and that announcement and communications for this are ongoing. Andy repeated that the goal is for each partner in PaNOSC to submit 10 use cases, which should be scientific use cases coming from real users of the facilities.

* Use cases published: https://www.panosc.eu/use-cases/
* submit your use case form: https://www.panosc.eu/submit-your-use-case/

Jamie asked whether scientists using VISA remote service at the ILL would be a valid use case and Andy replied yes.

Jordi suggested collecting information of how many use cases each partner has submitted, which would help us track if any partner is a little bit behind.

**1. Pending Issues**

* *[#70 Service Provider for EOSC-registered services](https://github.com/panosc-eu/panosc/issues/70)* : Jordi encouraged Jean-François and others to get together and agreed a consistent approach to selecting a service provider in EOSC. Services should outlive PaNOSC, therefore he explained that it may be better not to chose PaNOSC as service provider but one of the partners (or any other body that has a more permanent/longer lasting life)

* *[#69 Review Report : Risk Management](https://github.com/panosc-eu/panosc/issues/69)* and *[#63 Review Report: joint KPIs with ExPaNDS](https://github.com/panosc-eu/panosc/issues/63)* : Jordi booked meetings with WP leaders regarding this topic. He pointed out that 

* *[#68 Review Report : WP1's Data Management Plan](https://github.com/panosc-eu/panosc/issues/68)* : Jordi thanked everyone for their comments / feedback. Next step would be to review the information and resubmit.

* *[#65 Review Report: Open Access publications](https://github.com/panosc-eu/panosc/issues/65)* : Rudolf reported that the paper is openly available, however there is still an issue with the EU-funding disclaimer

* *[#64 Review Report: Dissemination plan review](https://github.com/panosc-eu/panosc/issues/64)* : This will be resubmitted soon

* *[#62 Review Report: Engage the community](https://github.com/panosc-eu/panosc/issues/62)* : Nicoletta explained the upcoming activities (posters at user meetings, talks, workshops and other initiatives). Nicoletta also reminded Andy and Jordi to validate zenodo items.

After all of these, it was considered to move into the WP leaders updates, so everyone would have time to talk.

**1. WP leaders other updates**

* WP1 - Management: Jordi reported ongoing work for KPIs, risks and DMP. Also, partners will be contacted about commitments made after the internal financial review and Executive Board meeting.

* WP2 - Data Policy and Stewardship: Andy reported ongoing work on the adoptiong of the data policy and participating in a DOI workshop with ExPaNDS. A session on using covid-data is also coming up soon.

* WP3 - Data Catalogue Services: Tobias reported continuous work on the upcoming deliverable, which is taking up shape, however there is not much federating in the search API as there is only once instance working and example data is not good.

**Tobias raised the concern that partners are not progressing as fast as it is desirable in the Search API**. Andy requested a list of partners and/or employees at partners sites that are not collaborating enough, so we can try to address this issue.

* WP4 - Sandor was absent. Jamie reported a workhop last week about the portal and working with Elettra on a microservice. Specifications are available in Confluence.

* WP5 - Virtual Neutron and X-ray Laboratory (VINYL: Juncheng reported that a meeting is planned for 22/01/2021 to start work on milestone and deliverable. Work is ongoing on providing simulation data in NeXus format, so data analysis services of WP4 can work with it. The idea is to increase the availability of simulation data in the data analysis workflow.

Andy reminded Juncheng that the serial crystalography could be a nice use case that he could submit in the PaNOSC website.

* WP6 - EOSC Integration: Jean-François reported attending the technical workshop with ESCAPE which included a presentation on the data lake. He is not so sure PaNOSC can right now join the data lake initiative, however it would be good to observe it. Jean-François also reported an upcoming AAI tranining session 4th February.

* WP7 - Sustainability: Ornela reported working with WP4 and WP8 in order to assess the sustainability of the services and tools being produced. It is important to asseess what would need to be maintained post-PaNOSC. Andy pointed out that some of these items have dependencies at RI level, but also dependencies that are external (e.g. technologies developed by 3rd parties).

* WP8 - Staff and User Training: Thomas was absent. Florian reminded the attendees of the upcoming train the trainer workshop which has 20 attendees already registered. He reminded all RI partners to ensure they have two registered attendees. It was agreed that for this workshop is OK to have an external observer.

*WP9 - Outreach and Communication: Nicoletta reported setting up interviews related to SIMEX (dev & also users) and MacStas. She mentioned a published interview with Mads and requested volunteers to continue the video production, so she  asked all partners to provide names of users and scientists that are using PaNOSC services.

Nicoletta also reported working adding a chatbot to the website and the posibility to join the info@panosc mailing list by subscribing in the website.

-ENDS-
