PaNOSC Project Management Committee meeting - 25/08/2021 
========================================================


Attendees
-------
Jordi (ESRF), Rudolf (ESRF), Jean-Francois (ESRF), Jamie (ILL), Erwan (ILL), Fabio (XFEL), Tobias(ESS), Juncheng (XFEL), Thomas (ESS), Jesper (ESS) and Teodor (ELI)


Minutes
-------	

Jordi explained that the point 3 (News from ExPaNDS) will not take place because no representative of ExPaNDS was available.

**1. Update on [D8.1 - Report on lessons learned](https://docs.google.com/document/d/1VJg_BWmWUEJYWtU65mO_p-PFNMEBxOAx/edit?dls=true)**

Teodor reported that the draft is shared and it will be used not only as a deliverable but as the basis for a training in data stewardship, therefore it is very important that **all partners producing data contribute** to the lessons learned document.

Jordi urged all partners to contribute to the document.

Teodor also added that ELI has completed the process of becoming and ERIC, therefore ELI-DC should not longer be used and instead use ELI-ERIC. Jordi congratulate him in the achievement.


**2. Selection of volunteers to review content and format of upcoming deliverables in November**

Jordi reminded everyone that in November we will have 6 deliverables due:
* D1.8 - Report of annual workshop 3 (ESRF)
* D2.2 - DMP Template (ESS)
* D2.4 - Integration of the policy (CERIC-ERIC)
* D6.2 - Compute cloud report (ELI-DC)
* D6.3 - AAI report (ILL)
* D7.2 - Photon and Neutron EOSC metrics (CERIC-ERIC)

and that it will be difficult for the ESRF to review, validate and upload all of them, therefore it was agreed to share the workload of reviewing the final drafts.

During the meeting the following attendees volunteered:
* Teodor
* Petra
* Thomas for D6.2
* Jean-François for D2.2
* Erwan/Jamie for D6.3
* Fabio


**3. News from ExPaNDS**

Jordi asked all partners to contribute to:

Item removed from the agenda

**4. News from EOSC Future**

Rudolf requested to rename this recurrent agenda item to "News from EOSC" and reported:
	
  **EOSC-Future** is gradually picking up speed with all the work packages now being active. The number of persons directly involved in the project is challenging (300) in terms of coordination and communication. The interaction between the EOSC-Association and EOSC-Future, between the Commission and EOSC-Future, and between the EOSC-07 projects and EOSC Future will also be challenging. There is a natural overlap of interests and activities which needs coordination but which is limited by the time available to meet and discuss. There is in particular discussions going on for the procurement activity between EOSC-Future, the EOSC Association and the Commission.  There is currently a substantial effort going on to work on a collaboration agreement between the EOSC-07 projects and EOSC-Future. 
The first wave of deliverables and milestones of EOSC-Future will be due in September. This will generate an incredible level of activity for everybody in the project. 
	
  I reviewed the deliverables from the three consortia currently participating in the Pre-Commercial-Procurement (PCP) **project Archiver**. Each company submitted a deliverable on the “Total Cost of Services” and an assessment on the criteria for Core Trust Seal Certification of their offerings. I cannot disclose detailed information, but here it may be of interest to say that the offer for archiving data of the companies ranges from 1.5 to 2.5 M€ annually for 35PB without long-term price revision, i.e. the companies all consider that prices per PB archived will not drop in the foreseeable future (!). 
	
  The **EOSC association has four positions open**, among which their future Chief Technology Officer. They are also actively working to launch the Advisory Groups. A vote is ongoing to accept new partners and observers to the association among which the ILL. There is no doubt that this will be positively voted. A revision of the EOSC Association statutes is being prepared and would have to be voted by the members at the next General Assembly foreseen to take place in December. 
	
Last but not least, we have been working on a **publication on “How to make EOSC work”** following our panel discussion at the last EOSC symposium (Sarah Jones, Hilary Hanahoe, Ingrid Dillo, Owen Appleton, Shalini Kurapati, and myself) to be published hopefully in September.

  **LEAPS Plenary** 21 October – Andy and Patrick are invited to present the “Future of PaNOSC and ExPaNDS” at the Plenary


**5. Update on [expected and completed commitments per WP](https://docs.google.com/document/d/1PBgnw8kKSLn5kAh6nEd1UDuDo-AQdHWr/edit)**

Jordi explained to everyone that there is an Executive Board meeting next week and the document is available through the link. Any comments / suggestions should be done by Thursday midday, so they can be sent to the Executive Board Thursday afternoon.

Rudolf said that AAI and Data Search should be highlighted in the document as they are fundamental for PaNOSC and ExPaNDS to participate in EOSC Future.

**6. Updates on PaNOSC/ExPaNDS Symposium and Annual Meeting**

Jordi reported that it has been decided that the Symposium will take place 26th of October and will last half a day. The Annual Meeting will be postponed to end of the spring 2022 (May-June) to give a chance to meet face to face.

Jordi also explained that Andy has thought of a face to face meeting only for PaNOSC to advance/prepare the Periodic Report (period M18-M36) and that he will share more details by email.

**7. Selection of services to release in EOSC Portal**

Jean-François reported that he thought we had agreed to the following
* **OAI PMH end points** 
* **Data Analysis Service / VISA instances**

Tobias confirmed that he agreed to offer the end points, however he will like a link to the registration form and maybe some instructions/guidance to which Jean-François replied that it shouldn't be a problem, however we will need the end point stable and running.

Jean-François clarified the nature of the services that can be offered in the EOSC and it was agreed that it should be possible to reserve 1 or 2 small VISA instances for this.

Jordi enquired about the marketplace and receiving payment for services to which Jean-François shared his thoughts that it would be difficult to manage.

**8. Next Meetings**

Jordi explaiend that next Wednesday (01/09) there will be a WP5 internal review with the week after a regular PMC meeting (08/09). 

The attendees briefly discussed the WPs that are waiting for an internal review (WP1, WP8 and WP9) and it was agreed that a review of WP1 won't be necessary.

**9. Use cases dashboard**

Jordi reminded all partners to submit use cases using the panosc.eu website and that the target is to have 10 use cases submitted per partner. Also, for the Symposium we would like some scientists to briefly talking about their use case.

Jamie reported that ILL worked in two videos related to VISA usage and Jordi asked him to ensure that any use case by a scientists is submitted using the website.

**10. WPs dashboards to complete**

Jordi put on hold this topic as it overlaps with the Partner Commitments.

**11. WP leaders updates**

* **WP8 - Training** : Thomas reported that the training catalog and pan-learning.org are merging and will be using the same domain name. He wondered whether a new service should be registed in the EOSC Portal to which Jean-François replied that updating the description and ensuring the provider of the training catalog is registered as 2nd provider of the service should be enough.

Jamie asked whether UmbrellaId is implemented in pan-learning to which Jesper replied that work is ongoing using Quickload (so far UmbrellaId only works at ESS).

* **WP4 - Data Analysis Services** : Fabio reported that the deployment of VISA is starting at some partners (e.g. CERIC-ERIC) and that the ILL has done some nice work to enable more providers for VISA (so instead of only OpenStack with some coding it should be possible to use Proxmox, VMWare, etc.)

-ENDS-
