PaNOSC Project Management Committee meeting - 30/06/2021 
========================================================


Attendees
-------
Jordi (ESRF), Rudolf (ESRF), Andy (ESRF),  Jean-Francois (ESRF), Erwan (ILL), Stuart (ILL), Fabio (XFEL), Thomas (ESS), Teodor (ELI), Nicoletta (CERIC), Dario (CERIC) and Ornela (CERIC).


Minutes
-------	

Jordi highlighted the busy agenda of the day and the fact that Andy, Erwan and Stuart will have to leave half-way through the meeting. Rudolf proposed to change the point 3 of the agenda from *EOSC Future presentation* to *Update on Cloud Procurement* which will be shorter. The proposal was accepted.

**1. Planning a new EB meetingPlanning a new EB meeting - update**
Jordi explained that Andy has requested a new EB meeting, however no date has been set yet. Andy replied that it must be either over the next two weeks or late August/early September.

In the previous meeting the following ideas were proposed for the EB meeting agenda.
* Internal Financial Report
* Sustainability: LEAPS/LENS vs PaNOSC
* Interaction with other science clusters
* Use Cases
* How is PaNOSC going to engage/coordinate with EOSC Future? (this includes the post-PaNOSC timeframe)

This time, the ideas were:
* Internal Financial Report *again*
* Use Cases *again*
* Collaboration with other science clusters *again*
* Sustainability *again*
* Engagement of partners
* Is there any partner that is not going to be capable to spend and willing to give up effort?

It was agreed that Jordi, Andy and Rudolf will take the scheduling of this meeting offline.


**2. Feedback on the Internal Financial report**

Jordi explained that the shared document highlights how PaNOSC is overall underspending. Certain partners in certain WPs are overspending which Jordi believed should not be a big problem given that we are underspeneing in other areas, however spending must be increased a little bit in order to catch-up the underspending accrued so far.

Andy asked whether the spending in the report incldued the cloud procurement and Jordi said yes.

Rudolf asked whether a extension will be required? Jordi and Andy explained their thoughts: the underspending may end up delaying us and forcing us to ask for an extension, the alternative is that we deliver spending less than what was planned. Also, certain interesting areas where we are not underspending could benefit of an extension in order to deliver even more value to the EOSC. Rudolf pointed out that for the EB meeting, when talking about the financial report we will need to ask the extension question.

Andy asked the WP leaders whether they were surprised or whether they are taking any actions following the report to which Thomas replied that in WP4 they just received a resignation and Fabio said that XFEL has a temporary vacacny. 

Jordi explained that given the nature of PaNOSC, most of the spending is related to personnel contributions (i.e. providing effort via PMs) and that the reason for the underspending is that not enough people are working and submitting their effort for PaNOSC. Andy added that PaNOSC does not have a huge overlap with ongoing activities at the partners which forced us to hire, while we didn't hire (or if people leave) that craetes a gap with no contributions and lack of spending.

Jean-François added that looking at the Figure 6 (PMs Spent) of the report it does not look too bad, however in financial terms the picture looks a little bit worse. 

![Figure 6 of Internal Financial Review](https://github.com/panosc-eu/panosc/blob/master/Work%20Packages/WP1%20Management/Meetings/Project%20Management%20Committee/2021-06-30-PMC/Figure6.PNG)

Jordi replied that spending is reaching the planned speed, however he thinks it will be difficult to spend the underspending accrued so far and pointed out that WP2 is ending in November, so any contribution from that WP will need to stop (or maybe a Grant amendment will be required to extend the WP?)


**3. Cloud Procurement**

Rudolf explaiend that 29th June there was a meeting between the EC and EOSC Future where the EC asked for help with the procurement of EOSC Core and to write the specifications. Rudolf also reported that EOSC Future will ahve montly meetings with the EC.

Regarding Cloud Procurement Rudolf explained that he reached out to [OCRE (an EU-Funded project led by Géant)](https://www.ocre-project.eu/) and found out htat OCRE can help with cloud provider procurement. In practice this will enable obtaining preferential discounted prices for some providers (e.g. Amazon via Rackspace), however he will **need to know what storage, CPU and GPU needs** do we have. Rudolf proposed with an initial spending of 15-20k€. 

Ornela said that OCRE has not started to support CERIC yet but it will do so in July. Rudolf added that CloudBank (by CERN) is also an option.

Thomas said that for PaN-learning he can cehck and try to quantify the needs. Fabio then asked wehther only published use-cases are eligible for cloud resources and Jordi and Rudolf explained that if a use case is not yet finish but will be published in the near future it should be fine.


**4. News from ExPaNDS**

No ExPaNDS representative was present and no news were shared.


**5. WP6 CBMFS & OneData issues**

Jean-François explained that there are no news regarding CBMFS which is a minor issue not worth for the PMC meeting. Regarding OneData he explained that a meeting is planned for next week, however if a further pilot does not cover our needs and no solution can be found it will be difficult.

Jean-François and Jordi reminded everyone that OneData is the data transfer software supplier. The idea being that any data archived in a RI that needs to be processed with  a service not located at the RI can be transferred to where the service is located in a transparent manner for the user. [That would make it very easy for users to use our data](https://www.panosc.eu/use-cases/use-case-7-data-transfer-using-egi-datahub-onedata/) and aligns perfectly with the EOSC aims and FAIR. Of course, if no solution is found data could still be transferred manually by the users (e.g. via Globus) but that won't be as easy for users, therefore this will make our archived data less attractive to users.

It was pointed out that other clusers projects (like ESCAPE with the data lake) do not plan to transfer data outside their community/research centres.


**6. New calls**

Ornela explained that she couldn't attend the meeting and therefore does not have news. Rudolf said that [calls are published with 23rd of September 2021 deadline](https://www.horizon-europe-infodays2021.eu/event/research-infrastructures/destination-infraeosc-2021-call) which makes it very difficult to put together a reasonable Consortium and proposal. Adding to that the current workload at the ESRF makes him think that it maybe better to wait for the 2022 calls and commit to projects when knowing that we have the capacity to contribute and manage them well.

Ornela and Rudolf then talked a little bit about the email send by the president of the EOSC Association.

Thomas asked about LEAPS and LENS and their purpose coordinating proposals. Rudolf said that the idea of LEAPS and LESN was to create a partnership to ensure a steady flow of funding and organisation (a little bit like the EOSC Association) however that didn't happen so now they focus on the coordination. Jean-François added that there is a gap between LEANS/LEAPS and the decision made at individual RIs.

**7. D8.1 due end of July**

Teodor shared the link to contribute to the draft *[D8.1 Report on lessons learned and future prospects for adopting best practices on data stewardship at the PaNOSC facilities](https://drive.google.com/file/d/1VJg_BWmWUEJYWtU65mO_p-PFNMEBxOAx/view?ts=60dc6b0f)* and explained that there is a section for each partner to complete. ELI has completed their part however in order to submit this deliverable all partners will need to contribute.

-ENDS-
