PaNOSC Project Management Committee meeting - 03/03/2021 
========================================================


Attendees
-------
Jordi (ESRF), Andy (ESRF), Jean-Francois (ESRF), Rudolf (ESRF), Erwan (ILL), Jamie (ILL), Nicoletta (CERIC), Tobias (ESS) Carsten (XFEL), Stuart (ILL), Petra (ESS), Sandor (XFEL), Thomas (ESS), Ornela (CERIC), Dario (CERIC) and Sophie (ExPaNDS)


Minutes
-------	

At the start of the meeting Jordi introduced Erwan, who will be coordinating PaNOSC activities at the ILL. 

**1. Text and supporting documents for  MS8.4 and MS6.2**

Jordi reminded WP8 colleagues that before he can tick the milestone as completed in the EU Portal he would like to have a short paragraph to support (to add in the EU Portal) and also a supporting document (this could be very short, just linking the source code repository and a couple of paragraphs). 

Andy added that we have in GitHub templates for the supporting document.

Thomas explained that he requested more to be done in order to have a more user friendly Jupyter integration into the e-learning platform. Thomas added that he thinks this can be achieved by the end of March.

For MS6.2 Jean-François reported that the services are now registered and available in the EOSC:
* https://marketplace.eosc-portal.eu/services/pan-learning-org-is-a-e-learning-platform-specifically-designed-to-provide-training-for-users-of-photon-and-neutron-sources
* https://marketplace.eosc-portal.eu/services/panosc-software-catalogue

Jean-François will provide the paragrah and supporting documentation to Jordi as soon as possible.

Jamie asked if for the software catalog it is possible to have a subdomain within PaNOSC to which Andy replied that he can easily setup a DNS entry and Jean-François added that a global strategy should be put in place about domains and naming of services as these should outlive PaNOSC. It was also added that using the PaNOSC domain exludes our ExPaNDS colleauges. Thomas agreed that naming should be for all the community and Jean-François added that pan.science is available. Rudolf also suggested LENS & LEAPS, but that has its own issues.

Andy then added that our e-learning platform has only the PaNOSC logo. Jordi said that he will start conversations with Sophie and Patrick in ExPaNDS, so a name and logo for the whole community can be agreed. In these conversations Andy, Nicoletta and Kat will also be involved. 
Nicoletta said that she would like to have volunteers to produce two 1 minute videos to introduce and promote to the two new services and Jordi replied that the WP leaders could be good candidates. Thomas replied that he will contact Stella for pan-learning.org and Jean-François agreed to work with Nicoletta on this.

**2. Annual Meeting + Symposium in 2021**

Jordi explained that he has talked with Sophie (ExPaNDS) this week and it seems reasonable and possible to have a common annual meeting again this year. Jordi and Sophie talked earlier thisweek about the possibility to have a core team of people at a given facility to organise the event, with letting open the unlikely option for a face-to-face meeting (as long as it can be switched to online only at no cost). Sophie explained that ALBA hosting the event (immediately after the LEAPS meeting) was a possibility, with MAX IV an alternative. Jordi added that it would be good to start work on this topic, to ensure that we are ahead of the game and aksed for volunteers: Andy and Nicoletta said that they would be happy to help.

Jordi also asked about the meeting structure and asked for feedback and suggestions for the next one to which Andy replied that he would like the meeting to focus more on users and how users are using PaNOSC servies and benefiting from them, so more use cases are presented and it is clear the difference that PaNOSC is making and how much more it can make.

**3. Use Cases**

Jordi introduced a dashboard that lists the use cases contributions from different partners:

| Partner | Use Cases Submitted | Comments |
| ------- | ------------------- | -------- |
| ESRF  |  3  |   |
| ILL   |  0  |   |
| ESS   |  0  |   |
| XFEL  |  6  |   |
| CERIC |  2  |   |
| ELI   |  0  |   |
| EGI   |  0  |   | 

Jordi explained that the target is for each partner to provide at least 10 use cases. Andy added that the use cases should be sponsored by a scientist. They can be submitted by us, but a scientists/user should be involved and agreed for the use case to be linked to him/her, so it is clear that PaNOSC is delivering services for scientists and taking their needs into account.

Thomas said that he should be able to submit a couple of use cases soon and Stuart said the same. 

A brief discussion followed around whether the use cases should be very specific (and kind of duplicated for each science domain) or more general. Jordi and Andy said that it is preferable to be specific as this enables us to show a real case (not a generic un-existent situation), with a real scientist behind that benefits from PaNOSC services. 

**4. SRI 2021 - deadline for abstracts 5th March**

Jordi explained that it was plan to present a common abstract with ExPaNDS, unfortunately ExPaNDS has pulled out. Nicoletta added that the deadline for submitting abstracts is this Friday 5th March and the [SRI conference](https://www.sri2021.eu/) takes place in Hamburg from 30th August to 3rd September, so while the time is short for submitting an abstract, further detail and work can take place to polish the idea ahead of the presentation.

Sandor volunteered to work with Nicoletta in order to have an abstract ready by end of Friday. Andy suggested a generic abstract to which we can later on add details for a presentation.


**5. WP leaders other updates**

* WP2 - Data Policy and Stewardship: Andy reported no progress on D2.3, but progress on DMPs (Data Management Plans), in particular a mockup of DMP integration into a user portal and the associated workflow.

* WP3 - Data Catalogue Services: Tobias reported no issues with plans to share a final draft of D3.2 before the next PMC meeting, so it can be reviewed and submitted in time. Jordi showed to Tobias a [WP dashboard](https://github.com/panosc-eu/panosc/wiki/Work-Packages-dashboards) that he started as a draft. 
![image](https://user-images.githubusercontent.com/42926461/109983003-b7ae6b80-7d02-11eb-955b-f0746e873a43.png)
 
ExPaNDS is taking a similar initiative and the idea is to have for each WP a dashboard that can help follow progress. Tobias agreed to edit the WP3 dashboard to make it better match the WP.

* WP4 - Data Analysis Services: Sandor reported that he will be leaving and hand over WP4 management and PaNOSC Coordination within XFEL to his colleague F. DA. who replaces Hans. Sandor shared information about two milestones:
	* May 2021: KPI snapshot
	* Aug 2021: PaN Portal v2.0

The handover process is starting and should be finished by 1st April. Andy asked to collaborate in the handover and to have a meeting with F. DA. to which Sandor agreed.

* WP5 - Virtual Neutron and X-ray Laboratory (VINYL): Carsten reported working on internal milestones, with 4 new internal milestones being added. Carsten also reported Misumi (ELI) who is a scientists looking at use cases which will be submitted soon (around the end of the month). Andy asked whether computer resources are required and Carsten replied that once the use case is submitted (around April) it will become more clear what resources are required and when. Jamie asked about obtaining GPU resources and Andy explained that 100k€ are reserved for cloud resources, therefore it should b e possible to obtain GPUs. Rudolf said that EGI has GPUs too.

* WP6 - EOSC Integration: Jean-François reported work by Jamie on D6.4 (software catalog), with the deliverable to be submitted by the end of March. Jean-François also explaiend that in a survey there was a request for having a Docker Registry, however it is not known who has requested that feature and no one is coming forward with further details, therefore this feature will be dropped by the end of March if no further info can be found. Jean-François also reported that Globus in in production at the ESRF.

The meeting was overdue by this point.

* WP7 - Sustainability: Ornela reported having finished WP leaders interviews and working in the adaptation of the business models, according to the outcomes. She is meeting with Sophie tomorrow to discuss how to involve ExPaNDS in the sustainability. No news for the cost collection, no new contributions received from partners.  

* WP8 - Staff and User Training: Thomas did not have time to report.

* WP9 - Outreach and Communication: Nicoletta did not have time to report, but shared the following after the meeting:

    I'd take the chance to inform you that, following our meeting yesterday, all submitted use cases are now also available on github, in an editable .md file 
    https://github.com/panosc-eu/panosc/blob/master/Work%20Packages/WP9%20Outreach%20and%20communication/Use%20Cases/UseCases.md

    This is the link of the uses cases' page on our website: https://www.panosc.eu/use-cases/

    For submitting new ones, the form remains the same, as at this link: https://www.panosc.eu/submit-your-use-case/

* WP1 - Management: Jordi did not have time to report.


-ENDS-
