PaNOSC Project Management Committee meeting - 21/07/2021 
========================================================


Attendees
-------
Jordi (ESRF), Rudolf (ESRF), Jean-Francois (ESRF), Stuart (ILL), Fabio (XFEL), Tobias(ESS), Nicoletta (CERIC), Dario (CERIC), Carsten (XFEL) and Sophie(ExPaNDS).


Minutes
-------	

The long agenda was approved without changes.

**1. Agree dates for PMC summer break and restart**

It was agreed that the next PMC meeting will be held on Wednesday 25th August at 14:00h as some partners could not attend a meeting on the 18th and some WPs will not be able to report any progress due to leave/holidays.


**2. News from ExPaNDS**

Sophie explained that during the ExPaNDS mid-term review the reviewers felt that it was not clear what ExPaNDS and PaNOSC were doing in common, their dependencies and separate streams of work. The review urged to clarify who does what, so Sophie has created the following page that needs review by WP leaders:

* https://github.com/ExPaNDS-eu/ExPaNDS/wiki/Mapping-ExPaNDS-and-PaNOSC-activities

The idea is to clearly explain what work is done in *common* (ExPaNDS and PaNOSC working together), what work is *complementary* (only one of the partners does the work but this is useful to the other project), what is done in *parallel* ( it is mandatory for both partners to do it, like for example deployments/set up at each RI) and what is *extra* (work done at one project that is not included in the scope of the other project).

Sophie asked everyone to comment on https://github.com/ExPaNDS-eu/ExPaNDS/discussions/15 after reviewing the wiki page above with their feedback.

Jean-François pointed out that for the extras it is not clear what is the mechanism to explain to the other project what has been done (e.g. AAI is part of PaNOSC but not of ExPaNDS, so who to contact in ExPaNDS to explain the work done by PaNOSC in AAI?) to which Jordi replied that the idea is that either Sophie/Patrick attend the PMC meetings so they can rely any information of extras into ExPaNDS (in the same way that Andy attends some ExPaNDS meetings). Sophie and Pattrick can also be contacted by email.

Tobias asked Sophie what to do if the information seemed wrong in the [wiki page](https://github.com/ExPaNDS-eu/ExPaNDS/wiki/Mapping-ExPaNDS-and-PaNOSC-activities) and Sophie replied that [commenting that would be great feedback](https://github.com/ExPaNDS-eu/ExPaNDS/discussions/15).


**3. Review of expected and completed commitments per WP**

Jordi asked all partners to contribute to:

* https://docs.google.com/document/d/1PBgnw8kKSLn5kAh6nEd1UDuDo-AQdHWr/edit

Jordi also explained that this overlaps a bit with the [dashboards](https://github.com/panosc-eu/panosc/wiki/Work-Packages-dashboards) that not all WP leaders have completed so far, so he will speak with Andy to make both documents to converge.

Fabio added that the fact of looking at this as generated meetings at XFEL to try to improve the situation.


**4. Next WP review (WP1, WP2, WP5, WP8 or WP9)?**

Carsten volunteered to have WP5 the next WP to be reviewed with tentative date of Wednesday 1st of September.

Jordi reminded to Carsten that if he wishes to change a little bit the format of the review that should be OK and to engage with Andy for the preparation of the review.


**5. Reminder of upcoming deliverables and milestones**

Jordi pointed out that the next deliverable is expected to be late (D8.1 - Report on lessons learned due 31/07/2021) and no representative from WP8 attended the meeting to give further details.

Rudolf reminded everyone that Teodor asked for everyone to review and contribute to [D8.1 - Report on lessons learned](https://docs.google.com/document/d/1VJg_BWmWUEJYWtU65mO_p-PFNMEBxOAx/edit?dls=true) and urged all WP leaders  and PaNOSC contributors to help.

Jordi also explained that there are plenty of deliverables and milestones due at the end of November (6 deliverables and 5 milestones for WP1, WP2, WP6, WP7 and WP8) therefore it is very important that deliverables and milestone supporting documents are shared well in advance so they can be reviewed (if all of them arrive at once it won't be possible to review and submit them on time).

It was agreed that deliverables and milestones MUST be shared in final draft form at least 3 weeks before the deadline (by 9th November).

Rudof suggested that the review of deliverables (content and formatting) should be split, so it is possible to submit them faster and the workload for Andy/Jordi decreases. It was agreed that it seeemed a good idea and in the next PMC reviewers for these will be appointed.


**6. Updates on PaNOSC/ExPaNDS Symposium and Annual Meeting**

Nicoletta reported that the Annual meeting and Symposium for PaNOSC and ExPaNDS will take place 26th to 28th of October. By the end of August it will be decided whether the meeting will have either:
* an hybrid form: with face to face and remote attendance
* or a fully remote nature

Nicoletta added that the format proposed would be like the last year: 
* 1st day in the afternoon: Symposium
* 2nd and 3rd day for WP meetings

Nicoleta explained that if we want to make users the main target group of the Symposium ti would be good to avoid jargon/too political presentations and focus on practical examples and real uses cases delivered via PaNOSC/ExPaNDS. She explained that a possible approach is to select some use cases and convince the scientists to present.

Jordi said that it is important that what is shown to users/scientists is in production / shortly put in production in order to attract the scientists interest. Fabio added that more general use cases could also be of interest to a larger audience. Rudolf proposed to use scientific use cases that work and provided results, focusing on the added value for scientists.

Nicoleta explained that we have currently 21 use cases and these would need to be reviewed in order to select the most appropriate ones (to be started in the next PMC meeting).

Rudolf explained that it could be very intestesting to have 10 presentations of 10 minutes each, so they are not too long/boring, keep people interested and cover many topics. Also, that would cover around 2 hours of time.

Nicoletta also added, that some speakers were considered (Ron Decker from EOSC Future) or someone from EOSC Life (e.g. Carole Goble - [https://www.software.ac.uk/about/staff/person/carole-goble], or someone new, to speak about software and training in EOSC-Life. Rufold added that with Ron and EOSC Future it woudl be very difficult to avoid jargon, however that would be interesting if we have some attendance from the EC.

Possible presentations from LEAPS/LENS were also discussed (maybe Miriam Forster?) to cover sustainability.

Sophie said that it would be good as well to reserve some time to introduce the projects and Jordi added taht if each RI represented in the two projects invites 6/7 scientists then we could have aroudn 100 for the symposium.

Nicoleta ended this topic by saying that an email with the "Save the date" will be shared around the end of July.

**7. Use Cases Dashboard**

Jordi reminded all partners that the target is to have 10 use cases submitted per partner. Some partners are particularly far away from the target and it is important to take this seriuly.

**8. WPs dashboards to complete**

Jordi reminded the attendees to complete their dashboard in https://github.com/panosc-eu/panosc/wiki/Work-Packages-dashboards


Items 9 and 10 couldn't be covered due to lack of time but Jean-François asked what services should be declared at the EOSC as per milestone *MS6.3 - Second release of PaNOSC services,data and resources*. Jean-François explained that WP6 will support the registration of services in the EOSC Portal, however WP6 cannot provide the services (that must be done by the other WPs).

Jordi and Jean-François said that the first release of two services included existing services that were re-adapted, improved and rebranded and that we need a couple more of services to deploy. Jean-François suggested WP4's VISA/PaN Portal and Jordi suggested the Search API.

It was agreed that Jupyter it nto an ideal candidate for this dur to the setup and security and that VISA should be possible and it is a beter choice. Tobias said that the Search API could be done, depending on what we want to show. It was agreed that services will continue to be improved and extended during the lifetime of PaNOSC and that it is normal that a first version of a service is not a final/complete version of it. With that in mind, the federated API and its documentation could be releasable service, which will be improved with a UI, more federated sources, ranking of the results, etc. at a later date. It was agreed to discuss this at the next PMC.


-ENDS-
