# PaNOSC WP 7 meeting - 11/02/2021

### Participants
Jordi Bodera Sempere (ESRF), Sandor Brockhauser (EuXFEL), Ornela de Giacomo (CERIC-ERIC), Rudolf Dimper (ESRF), Florian Gliksohn (ELI), Teodor Ivanoaica (ELI), Yuri Kiryenko (XFEL), Jean-Francois Perrin (ESRF),  Roberto Pugliese (CERIC-ERIC), Dario Roccella (CERIC-ERIC), Angela Zennaro (CERIC-ERIC)

### Agenda

#### 1. T 7.4 Report on sustainability: stakeholders consultation with PaNOSC WP leaders: WP2 Andy Gotz, WP5 Juncheng E, WP6 Jean-Francois Perrin and WP9, Nicoletta Carboni
#### 2. T 7.3 Collection on feedback for business models and next steps
#### 3. T 7.1 Stakeholder consultation: collection of feedback for questionnaire proposed by Roberto
#### 4. T 7.2 Cost collection: report on progress/issues by partners


### Minutes

#### 1. T 7.4 Report on sustainability: stakeholders consultation with PaNOSC WP leaders: WP2 Andy Gotz, WP5 Juncheng E, WP6 Jean-Francois Perrin and WP9, Nicoletta Carboni

Ornela de Giacomo presents the results of the interviews with WP leaders of PaNOSC. The interview with WP 3 leader is still missing. From the interviews, it emerges there are some common elements to all WP and some specific ones. As a general conclusion, three main kinds of business models could be proposed: 1) every RIs maintain their data management services, 2) PaNOSC outputs are linked to other communities, 3) a new RI manages the data of the PaN community, like other communities have done (e.g. ELIXIR, EMBL EBI). WP leaders provided an estimation of the required resources for the first kind of business model and some indications for the third. Some specific points linked to the nature of the WPs are:
-	the need or opportunity to integrate with ExPaNDS;
-	some key exploitable results are not completely defined yet, for some WPs;
-	the development of the services depends on the business model chosen and some tasks can need more or less effort depending on the business model;
-	Some services are entirely uncertain and their future needs to be discussed, for example, communication and dissemination.

Ornela de Giacomo shares the main outputs for each WP interview. 
In WP 2 there is an agreement to converge with ExPaNDS, but the main effort is not on the convergence but on the implementation part of the data policy. Regarding the DMP, principles are common, but ExPaNDS could choose different technical solutions. In PaNOSC, we have committed to adopt a data management plan while ExPaNDS doesn´t have this requirement in the project. Having a single entity as a business model will make the implementation easier (no need for harmonisation). Ornela de Giacomo shows the effort estimation related to WP 2 outputs and the external factors that can affect the long-term sustainability of the outputs, such as the maintenance of the catalogues (ICAT, SCICAT), archiving solutions (tapes), HDF5 standard maintained by the HDF group. For some of these, Andy also identified a way to contribute to their sustainability. For example, foreseeing a financial contribution to the HDF group could help ensure the standard is maintained.

Regarding WP 5 Ornela de Giacomo discussed with Juncheng about the main output, the simulation package. The discussion revolved around the effort required to maintain the package as it is today, how that can be achieved, the need for a coordinator of the activities, and other desirable development. Juncheng mentioned they could benefit from programmers who could make it more user-friendly. Teodor Ivanoaica explains that this output is highly dependent on the facility, and the effort estimated may change according to the facility; it´s hard to predict. This WP is not working with ExPaNDS, so their uptake of the simulation package is uncertain, although Juncheng thinks they would benefit from it. Ornela de Giacomo also shows the external factors that can affect the outputs of WP5 in the future. The main one is open source software: if not developed further, the part of the simulation package based on this software will stall. As a consequence, the package will still be functional but at some point become obsolete.

Regarding WP 6 the main outputs are:
-	Umbrella ID: Currently, GÉANT is migrating Umbrella to EduTeams. This service is provided for free as PaNOSC will last, but it can generate a future cost.
-	Software for data transfer: currently exploring different solutions: Globus, IBM Aspera, OneData.
-	Software catalogue, output of the PaNDATA ODI project, maintained solely by ILL after that and currently we are developing new functionalities in PaNOSC. This output will require effort by all the facilities.
-	The last output is the User support (helpdesk), but it is far from being defined.

The effort estimated to maintain these outputs after PaNOSC may differ according to the choices made. For the Umbrella ID it depends on the kind of support required from GÉANT. There is already a MOU (memorandum of understanding) signed by several facilities. Jean-Francois estimated effort to maintain the data transfer software around 0,1 FTE. For the user support, it is challenging to say because there is no previous experience to know how much the community will use these services. The external factors that can affect the sustainability of WP 6 outputs are commercial software solutions and their maintenance by the external companies, and even more important, the level of adoption of open data by external users or “data scientists”.

Regarding WP 9, the main outputs could be identified as the website and other communication material. For this WP the effort is highly dependent on the business model adopted and the desired level of engagement of the community. In any case, a coordinator is needed and all facilities would need to contribute with at least 1 PM.
Florian Gliksohn asks, after the presentation by Ornela de Giacomo, which are the next steps, how we want to use the information collected from the interviews with the WP leaders. Ornela de Giacomo replies that we should continue studying the models of other data RIs (e.g. ERICs), their motivations to become an infrastructure and their strong arguments used to convince their stakeholders to support the establishment of a data management infrastructure, and afterward reach the directors and present the possible models, with the estimation of the effort involved, etc. Florian Gliksohn highlights that we have to take into account how to link with ExPaNDS, Ornela de Giacomo answers that we will reach ExPaNDS and have a feedback before presenting the idea to the facilities´ directors. Florian Gliksohn states that if we need additional information form WP 8 he will be available to provide it or help in writing the document.

#### 2. T 7.3 Collection on feedback for business models and next steps
Postponed to next meeting due to lack of time.

#### 3. T 7.1 Stakeholder consultation: collection of feedback for questionnaire proposed by Roberto
Postponed to next meeting due to lack of time.

#### 4. T 7.2 Cost collection: report on progress/issues by partners

Ornela de Giacomo states that ILL costs are still missing.  Sandor Brockhauser highlights that is waiting for director feedback before sending their costs estimation. Ornela de Giacomo highlights that we have already lost one month that was supposed to be dedicated to the cost consolidation and will have move fast with this task, since another month is about to pass. The result is that there may be less time available to comment on the drafts, also this process will need to speed up. The work breakdown has been updated accordingly.

Next meeting will be held on Thursday 25th February.

