**Attendees**

Andy, Rudolf, Jordi, Jayesh, Stuart, Teodor, Sophie, Nicoletta, Fabio, Petra, Thomas and Tobias.

**Summary**

1.	PaN EOSC Symposium debrief (max 15 min)

Overall PMC members were happy with the participation and outcomes of the PaN EOSC symposium. The event recording would be uploaded on the PaNOSC website. 

PMC members were happy with the quality of the talks and there were some mixed reactions on the final discussion session. 

2.	Things to clarify with PO and EC
•	EGI participation in WP7 (as EGI was not in the WP in the GA)
•	Spending in WP2 after November (WP2 finishes in M36 according to GA)
•	ELI-ERIC & linked third parties
PaNOSC has a new project officer. He was one of the PaN EOSC symposium attendee and congratulated the consortium members for the successful event organization. 

-	All the budget adjustments are fine with the PO as long as they are well justified and do not concern subcontracting. 
-	Jordi proposed PMC members to specify the details of the planned budget transfers in the periodic report. These details will be further discussed and finalized in the next face to face meeting in Copenhagen. 
-	An amendment might be necessary concerning the legal status change of ELI ERIC and its linked third parties.  ELI ERIC will update the PMC in the next couple of weeks regarding the transfer of linked third parties to the new legal entity. This information will also be included in the periodic report. ELI ERIC confirmed that all the allocated budget will be spent before the end. 
-	If an amendment is needed, it will be carried out after the periodic reporting. 


3.	Face to face meeting in Copenhagen (max 10 min)

-	Jordi asked for feedback on the Copenhagen f2f meeting agenda. The estimates table listing final project outcomes will have to be filled and discussed during the meeting.  
-	New project risks and issues (if any) should be reported and discussed during the meeting to prepare the mitigation plan.
-	All the project partners are expected to provide resources (PMs per WP) required to complete the final year project activities.
-	Project KPI statuses should be updated and published on the website. 
-	It was suggested to have a discussion on the final project outcomes as well as review the grant agreement to ensure all the project outcomes are addressed.
-	With exception from couple of members, most of the PMC members have already registered for the meeting. 
-	Andy suggested to talk about all future deliverables
-	It was agreed to discuss this again in the next PMC meeting

4.	WP8 review - new date required  
-	WP8 review will be rescheduled to 15 December 2021 with possible ExPaNDS participation.

5.	Deliverables and milestones
-	PaNOSC deliverable review and submission process was reminded to the PMC members (final drafts of the deliverables to submit should be sent to Jordi by 15/11/2021). 
-	An overview of upcoming deliverables and milestones was presented. PaNOSC management expects the final deliverable drafts on two weeks ahead of the due date. 
-	To report the achievement of M6.3 Second release of PaNOSC services, data and resources, it was discussed to submit data portal link of each ESFRI facility on the EOSC portal. Each facility should assign a person to declare themselves as service provider on the EOSC portal, submit their respective data portal links and report back to WP6 lead. 
-	
6.	News from ExPaNDS 
-	A new dissemination video has been published. (Link?)
-	An amendment is in progress.
-	Both PaNOSC and ExPaNDS have an upcoming milestone entitled annual report. In this report both the consortiums are planning to present the PaN EOSC consortium activities as the annual PaNOSC and ExPaNDS meeting has been postponed to 2022.

7.	News from EOSC (5 min)  
-	EOSC association is expecting feedback from its members on the Horizon Europe workprogramme 2023-24 by end of October 2021.
-	EOSC Future review took place couple of months ago and it went well. Next review will take place in 3 months. 
-	Cluster projects will need to present science projects activities under WP6 of EOSC Future. 
-	EOSC association general assembly will take place on 10 December 2021. Governance and membership mechanism will be discussed.
-	Next ESFRI-EOSC workshop will be organized either in Grenoble or Paris, dates are not yet finalized.  

8.	Any other business
-	Data hub use cases workshop (virtual) will be organized by ESS on 16th November 2021. 
-	LEAPS IT division representatives meeting will take/took place on 2nd November 2021 at 9 am. 
