PaNOSC Project Management Committee meeting - 19/05/2021 
========================================================


Attendees
-------
Jordi (ESRF),  Jean-Francois (ESRF), Erwan (ILL), Stuart (ILL), Fabio (XFEL), Thomas (ESS), Petra (ESS), Tobias (ESS), Teodor (ELI) and Sophie (DESY, ExPaNDS)


Minutes
-------	

At the start of the meeting it was decided to move the first point of the agenda to the end, so Miriam may join the meeting and explain teh details of the *ILL replacement for EOSCenhance*


**2. How is PaNOSC going to engage/coordinate with EOSC Future?**

Jean-François reported no news since the last PMC and ask what exactly this recurrent point in the agenda tries to accomplish, to which Jordi replied that EOSC Future has been created after PaNOSC, so of course we are not obliged to do anything with them but some of their work may have an impact on ours or there could be some room for synergies/collaboration. 
Jean-François then asked whether it could be a good idea to make a presentation about EOSC Future, its WP structure adn the points that could be of more interest for PaNOSC. Jordi and Thomas agreed that it would be a good idea and it was suggested that Rudolf would be a good candidate to do the presentation.

**3. Draft documents for D6.4 and D1.7 required. Supporting document for MS3.3**

Jordi explained that D2.3 was recently submitted but we are still pending D6.4, to which Jean-François said that a draft should be ready this week. The deliverable is a demostrator, so the document will be a short one explaining and linking to the demostrator.

Jordi added that D1.7 has a final draft (the last contributions were received on Monday 31st May) which will be reviewed so it can be submitted on Friday and thanked everyone for their support. 

Regarding MS3.3, Jordi just reminded that it would be good to have a short supporting document just in case (link to indico, participants, presentations, etc.), to which Tobias replied that all this information is available and that a document will be made.

**4. Use Cases Dashboard**

Jordi showed the table in the agenda and receied the following feedback:
* ESS has submitted a use case (so they have now 2)
* XFEL has two extra use cases in the making

With these updates the summary table is:

| Partner | Use Cases Submitted | Comments |
| ------- | ------------------- | -------- |
| ESRF  |  5  | 1 planned   |
| ILL   |  1  | 3 planned  | 1 w CERIC and EGI)
| ESS   |  2  |   |
| XFEL  |  7  | 2 planned |
| CERIC |  4  | 1 w ILL and EGI, 4 planned |
| ELI   |  1  | 1 planned  |
| EGI   |  1  | 1 w CERIC and ILL | 

Jordi reminded everyone that the target is **10 user cases per partner**. 

**5. Next WPs to have a review**

The attendees agreed that the next dates for meetings will be:
* 02/06/2021 : PMC meeting
* 09/06/2021 : WP7 - Sustainability Review
* 16/06/2021 : PMC meeting
* 23/06/2021 : WP6 - EOSC Integration Review

All meetings will take place at the usual time and there is no meeting planned for next week (27/05/2021).

**6. WP leaders updates**

**WP6 - EOSC Integration**: Jean-François reported that the service definition document will be ready in two weeks and feedback from ExPaNDS on it could be useful. Regarding OneData a disucssion with Erwan took place. The demostrator is to be moved to the ESRF (from ILL) and a meeting with the technical director of OneData was held to discuss the issues that prevent OneData from being validated for PaNOSC which resulted in news that a new updated of OneData mid-June should fix some of the problems. Given the time and recurrent issues with this topic there are concerns that a seamless data transfer for the users may not be possible. Jordi asked what would be the impact of that and Jean-François replied that other data transfer tools exist (Globus, AirClone) which work but are not automated. For the *PaNPortal-VISA*, an automated data transfer would make lives easier to the users (no need for the user to transfer the data manually). For example, at the ESRF, Globus requires manual data transfer and this generates user support queries.
Jean-François finished his intervention explaining that user offices will be informed of the new planned usage of user metadata by UmbrellaId around summer time.

**WP5 - ViNYL** : Carsten was absent

**WP4 - Data Analysis Services** : Fabio reported the KPI snapshot done, the v2.0 of the *PaNPortal-VISA* to be ready by end of September and reminded everyone of the decision to have the PaNPortal use the backend and technology stack of VISA (*PaNPortal-VISA*).
Jordi asked Fabio what would be the implications of that decision for other WPs and Fabio answer that they will be minimal, however he conceded that for ExPaNDS the impact may be bigger due to the different technology stack. Teodor added that for example, the Federated Search API hosted at ESS will be integrated shortly in the *PaNPortal-VISA*.


**WP3 - Data Catalog Services**: Tobias reported the WP3 Best Practices meeting taking place and that a Federated Search API demostrator has been setup at ESS and it is publicly available. It is being beta-tested and bug-fixed as issues are rported. Work is ongoing on scoring and paginate the results and also with the authentication. He reported work with Fabio and WP4 fore the data model to integrate with PaNPortal-VISA. Work on KPIs is ongoing, as some of the measures are not easily obtained.

**WP2 - Data Policy**: Andy was absent. Jordi rreported that D2.3 has been submitted and it is available on https://github.com/panosc-eu/panosc/tree/master/Submitted%20Deliverables/D2.3%20Guidelines%20on%20best%20practices%20implementing%20DP%20framework

**WP1 - Management**: Jordi reported work related to the review, formatting and submission of D2.3 and D1.7, this last one pending final review before submission. Jordi also explained that once D1.7 is submitted he will spend some time on the Internal Financial Review, adding that as a whole spending percentage is improving (we are at around 80%), however the contributions to WPs are not balanced, so there is scope to formalise re-balancing within the project and also maybe to kick-off the last hiring for PaNOSC.

**WP9 - Communication** : Nicoletta was absent

**WP8 - Staff and user training** : Thomas reported two meetings:
1. How to get computing resources for e-learning with EGI that is leading to a pilot with EGI and WP5
2. Future of Jupyter in pan-learning.org, as we need to chose between two different approaches to integratege Jupyter in the website.

Thomas also reported removing components of pan-learning to facilitate maintenance, this means that the GUI has changed to ensure that there are less technolgies involved in pan-learning, thus facilitating its maintenance. This is resulting in Jupyter having a more central role in pan-learning and keeping the same features for the users of the website.

Thomas and Sophie reported a new WP leader at ExPaNDS for their WP5 (equivalent to PaNOSC's WP8). She is A. Valcareli from Soleil.

**WP7 - Sustainability** : Ornela was absent. Sophie reported that Ornela participated on a sustainability workshop and showed the PaNOSC cost-models which were very well received. Teodor reported the cost drivers neededing to be updated.

**7. AOB**

Jean-François reported being contacted by Fenix RI, which is a project close to PRACE and that it is possible to submit proposals to use supercomputing time via https://fenix-ri.eu/news/prace-icei-calls-proposals-call-6

This could be useful for some users, with calls at the begining of July and early 2022 planned. Jean-François added that the data-transfer is not straight forward, wich only one protocol to send data available and different UIs depending on the supercomputing center that is available, therefore the ESRF will not send a proposal for now, however it may be interesting for the future (particularly for power-users).

**1. ILL replacement for EOSCenhance?**

Miriam couldn't join the meeting, but the issue was discussed and explained by Erwan and Jean-François. It seems that the ILL does not have the manpower (failed recruitments) to resource some work in EOSC Enhance and with 5 months left for the project the ILL is asking if anyone wants to take over. The role required is the one of a software developer (PaNOSC WP4-like) to help shape, test and validate the EOSC Portal monitoring APIs and the budget is around 60 to 80k€. Erwan asked any partner that could take over this task and is interested to contact him.

-ENDS-
