PaNOSC Project Management Committee meeting - 31/03/2021 
========================================================


Attendees
-------
Jordi (ESRF), Andy (ESRF), Jean-Francois (ESRF), Erwan (ILL), Stuart (ILL), Nicoletta (CERIC), Petra (ESS), Sandor (XFEL), Thomas (ESS), Ornela (CERIC), Dario (CERIC), Teodor (ELI), Roberto (CERIC), Fabio (XFEL), Rudolf (ESRF), Jonathan (ESS), Giuseppe (EGI) and Sophie (ExPaNDS)


Minutes
-------	

**1. Opening statement **

Andy presented his wish to review the project status among ourselves during April. He shared his concerns about PaNOSC delivering all the possible value and asked all participants to be frank, look at the challenges ahead and assess whether we are on track and satisfied with each WP and PaNOSC as a whole.

Jordi added that the idea is good and that his proposed work within WP1 links very well with Andy's proposed review.

Thomas said that maybe some time could be reserved on each PMC meeting to look in detail at one WP.

**2. Text and supporting documents for MS8.4**

Thomas shared that MS8.4 will be ready by the target date.


**3. Update on D2.3 and D6.4**

Andy reported no progress on [D2.3 - Guidelines  on best practices implementing the PaNOSC Data Policy framework](https://docs.google.com/document/d/1_myPYPk3DTXz-x1-meW4nXBcxNWO4yax-jGP6V00cHU/edit) as he is lacking support from the WP contributors to which Teodor offered his support. It was agreed that Jordi will also share the link to the draft via email to ask for further support.

Andy also answered a question from Sophie to clarify that at the moment is too early to receive comments/support from ExPaNDS for this.

Jean-François reported that the software development for D6.4 is done, with the integration with Umbrealla ongoing. The deliverable document will be short and ready by the end of April.

**4. Annual Meeting + Symposium in 2021**

Jordi reported that a first meeting to start organising the Annual Meeting + Symposium will be held 3rd May, with PSI being the hosting organistaion. Jordi asked anyone interested in participating in the organisation of the event to get in touch with him.

**5. Short update on EOSC-Future project status** 

Rudolf reported that the EOSC-Future went through several iterations and finally the kick-off date will be 1st April. Rudolf reminded everyone that the project has a budget of 41M€ and 85 partners (including linked 3rd parties). Rudolf clarified that the project is more scientific and less technical than PaNOSC/ExPaNDS.

Rudolf agreed to provide Sophie with a list of DESY/ExPaNDS participants in EOSC-Future.

**6. WP leaders other updates**

*WP1 - Management: Jordi proposed to request to all partners financial information covering the period up to the end of March so a new Internal Financial Report can be created and the proposition was accepted.

Jordi also showed to the attendees the [WP dashboards](https://github.com/panosc-eu/panosc/wiki/Work-Packages-dashboards) and asked all WP leaders to modify and complete the dashboards, so they have relevant columns and target dates for any objective not yet reached.

* WP2 - Data Policy & Stewardship: Andy reported that partner sites are updating to new data policies and that the DMP subproject is advancing with ExPaNDS. Andy also explained that he has worked on the [WP2 Dashboard](https://github.com/panosc-eu/panosc/wiki/Work-Packages-dashboards#wp2--data-policy--stewardship) and updated the KPIs.

* WP3 - Data Catalog Services: Tobias was absent. Petra reported that the deliverable for WP3 was submitted.

* WP4 - Data Analysis Services: Sandor made a farewell speech as he leaves PaNOSC and WP4. He explained that he has done a handover to Fabio and wished good luck to everyone for the remaining of the project.  Fabio added that there is ongoing work for the KPI snapshot and a new v2.0 of the PaN Portal, for which they are putting in place a roadmap.

Stuart pointed out that given the timescales and in order to avoid a rushed job it would be good to target end of September as the date for releasing the v2.0 to which Fabio replied that the idea is to have the v2.0 ready well ahead of our next Periodic Report (due November), so it cannot slip.

* WP5 - Vynil: Carsten was absent. Nicoleta reported a 7th use case for XFEL submitted. Andy reported COMSYL successfully ported to SLURM, which is a use case.

* WP6 - EOSC Integration: Jean-François reported that a presentation in the ExPaNDS meeting next week about the Software Catalog will take place. Jean-François also explained that docker registry will not be implemented and that they are looking for a data controller for UmbrellaId (as expanded metadata includes personal data). He proceeded to explain that for federated/multisite systems finding a data controller is tricky.

* WP7 - Sustainability: Ornela reported the first meeting with WP6 for service definition and internal milestones for the WP7 being moved. She highlighted that the data from XFEL for the Cost collection is missing and that at WP7 the work for the cost driver analysis has started. 

Ornela also explained that she took part in a meeting with ENVRI about sustainability of data provider. She is also looking at how the PaNOSC sustainaibility is related to the EOSC's one.

* WP8 - Staff and User Training: Thomas reported that they are missing WP5-ExPaNDS in WP8.

-ENDS-
