PaNOSC Project Management Committee meeting - 17/03/2021 
========================================================


Attendees
-------
Jordi (ESRF), Andy (ESRF), Jean-Francois (ESRF), Erwan (ILL), Jamie (ILL), Nicoletta (CERIC), Tobias (ESS), Petra (ESS), Sandor (XFEL), Thomas (ESS), Ornela (CERIC), Dario (CERIC), Kareem (ESS), Teodor (ELI), Roberto (CERIC), Fabio (XFEL) and Sophie (ExPaNDS)


Minutes
-------	

Sophie asked to add an item of the agenda about [ExPaNDS workshop on the EOSC](https://indico.desy.de/event/29297/).

**1. Presentation regarding WP6**

Kareem presented [Service Definitions Open Questions](https://github.com/panosc-eu/panosc/blob/master/Work%20Packages/WP6%20EOSC%20Integration/Service%20Definition/Service%20Definition%20-%20%20PMC%20-%20v2.pptx), the result of a working group formed by Jean-François, Teodor, Rudolf and himself. During the presentation he talked about the topics the working group wants to cover, all related to PaN EOSC services:
* Standards, including a template for service submissions to the EOSC Portal
* Sustainability issues (centralisation vs federalisation, post-PaNOSC management)
* AAI, including who can access PaN services
* Accounting, what should be counted
* SLAs/KPIs that we should define
* Technical / Security (constraints, policies)

Jordi and Andy agreed that these topics are in the scope of PaNOSC and endoresed the working group. Jordi added that it is important to coordinate with Ornela and WP7 regarding sustainability. Ornela said that the Sustainability WP is looking at the value proposition, cost and sustainability of all outputs of PaNOSC, so the final sustainability report is specific. Jean-François asked what would be the best way to ensure the right people are involved in the working group and it was agreed that the working group will continue its work with the adition of Ornela and anyone else interested. The meetings are usually on Tuesdays at 11:00h every other week. Sophie added that she will contact Kareem with the names of ExPaNDS people to join this meeting.

**A. ExPaNDS delivery of EOSC workshop**

Sophie explained that a [workshop for 6th and 7th April](https://indico.desy.de/event/29297/) has a section on the Software Catalogue and would like someone from PaNOSC to be present to introduce the topic and have a discussion/light training with the attendees.  Andy and Jean-François said that it would be a good opportunity to try to get more RIs to use the software catalogue and place in there their software packages of general use.

A brief discussion followed on Software Quality and Continuous Integration (another topic on that workshop) that was inconclusive.


**2. Text and supporting documents for MS8.4 and MS6.2**

Jean-François and Thomas explained that the text and supporting douments for both milestones have been provided.

* **NOTE**: After the meeting Jordi confirmed that MS6.2 is now achieved with the supporting information provided, however MS8.4 is not yet ticked as achieved and no supporting document for the achieved milestone is available in GitHub. Thomas explained that "we will demo it next week at the TtT workshop at which point I guess we can check the box". 


**3. Annual Meeting + Symposium in 2021**

Sophie explained that PSI volunteered to host and that a doodle is being prepared to start the working group that will help organise it. Andy pointed out that PaNOSC will have a 2nd Reporting Period and associated work around the same dates.


Andy also took the opportunity to explain some **changes in the monitoring of the project**. On 1st of April the [Research Executive Agency](https://ec.europa.eu/info/departments/research-executive-agency_en) will start to monitor PaNOSC and our Project Officer will complete the handover process, however as of today the future Project Officer is not known.

**3. Use Cases**

Jordi introduced a dashboard that lists the use cases contributions from different partners:

| Partner | Use Cases Submitted | Comments |
| ------- | ------------------- | -------- |
| ESRF  |  3  |  +3 soon |
| ILL   |  0  |   |
| ESS   |  0  |   |
| XFEL  |  6  |   |
| CERIC |  2 -> 4  |  2 submitted this week |
| ELI   |  0  |  +2 soon |
| EGI   |  0  |   | 

Jordi explained that the use cases is going to be a standard item in the agenda and reminded all participants that it is very important that all partners provide use cases, as these prove that our services fulfil a use case, there are users behind and will help us on demonstrating the need to make PaNOSC services sustainable.

Teodor explained that he has colleagues at ELI working on two use cases. Jordi urged all other partners to submit more use cases, in particular those that have the counter still at zero.


**5. WP leaders other updates**

* WP7 - Sustainability: Ornela reported that the cost collection has been completed, with all partners (including EGI) participating. The next step is to analyse the information, looking at business models, what services to preserve, the value they provide, the estimated costs to maintain them, etc. Two or three business models will be looked at, with the most suitable being developed in the sustainability report. Ornela will be sharing a draft as soon as it is available.

* WP8 - Staff and User Training: Thomas reported that the Jupyter integration (see point 2 of the agenda)  will be demonstrated in the upcoming Train the Trainer workshop next week, which will include some content linked to WP5.

Andy asked if a short video on how to use the software could be provided and Thomas said yes. 
Jamie ased if Umbrella is going to be integrated in the authentication and Thomas said yes. Teodor added that it is not straight forward due to the way the e-learning platform works.

* WP9 - Outreach and Communication: Nicoletta reported a [video interview]( https://bit.ly/McStasScript-for-x-ray-telescope-simulations) released today.
She also explained that the chatbot in the PaNOSC website is live. It was agreed that Roberto will circulate an email explaining how the chatbot works and how the answers it provides can be improved. He will also present it in a PMC meeting soon. Nicoletta reported that the abstract to SRI has been submitted and that has contacted Stella (WP8) about short videos on services developed with the idea of targeting teachers. She also has an interview planned for Women in Science. Nicoletta also asked wether the two services published to the EOSC could have an associated mini-interview video tha she could publisise.



-ENDS-
