# PaNOSC WP 7 meeting - 13/01/2021

### Participants
Sandor Brockhauser (EuXFEL), Ornela de Giacomo (CERIC-ERIC), Florian Gliksohn (ELI), Thomas Holm (ESS), Teodor Ivanoaica (ELI), Yuri Kiryenko (XFEL), Jean-Francois Perrin (ESRF), Angela Zennaro (CERIC-ERIC), Roberto Pugliese (CERIC-ERIC)

### Agenda
#### 1. T 7.2 Cost collection: report on progress/issues by partners
#### 2. T 7.1 Stakeholder consultation: collection of feedback for questionnaire proposed by Roberto
#### 3. T 7.4 Report on sustainability: stakeholders consultation with PaNOSC WP leaders: WP4 Sandor Brockhauser and WP8, Florian Gliksohn
#### 4. T 7.3 Collection on feedback for business models and next steps

### Minutes

####  1. T 7.2 Cost collection: report on progress/issues by partners
So far only ESRF and ELI have sent complete cost files, although some costs of ELI will change in 2-3 weeks according to some strategic decisions being made. The other partners inform that their cost sheets should be available within the end of the month. ILL is in the process of hiring a person that will be assigned to WP7. Ornela de Giacomo reminds that the cost tables will not be shared in github for confidentiality reasons and will be shared just with the people involved in the task.
From a first comparison of costs between ESRF and ELI it emerges that they may have used different criteria for some cost lines. The main differences are discussed. For example, the higher costs for storage provided by ELI are due to the fact that this distributed facility has not agreed so far in a single repository but separate ones, therefore the cost considers the need to maintain three infrastructures. Differences in this cost line may also depend that some facilities have more online storage and others more off line. Another noticeable difference between ELI and ESRF costs is on the Portal set-up. Teodor Ivanoaica explains that again, as a distributed infrastructure, they will need to create local instances of the portal in all ELI facilities, with the development of three independent catalogues. They may opt for just one catalogue but this will be decided in a couple of weeks, so finally this cost (and others) will be much lower. Ornela de Giacomo highlights that we will need to include these explanations in the final report. Thomas Holm proposes to have few lines from each partner explaining how the costs were calculated or estimated, and partners agree. 
Another difference in approach is evident from the representation of the costs of the EOSC related services: while ESRF decided to include these costs only in the future maintenance, considering that the cost of setup is covered by other activities performed by PaNOSC and are mostly services for the ESRF user community. Therefore are included in the part related to the infrastructure, not the EOSC. ELI assigned these costs to the setup and in the contrary, don’t have information about maintenance. This is because in order to estimate the maintenance costs it is necessary to have a hypothesis on the future deployment of the services by external users. ESRF explains that they used the opposite approach: they included in the costs what they think could be reasonable in relation to their budget and they will evaluate in the future how many reuse services they accomodate. Sandor Brockhauser asks thinks they need to consider in the initial set-up costs related to users from other communities/citizens. He proposes to rename “data processing linked to EOSC service catalogue- data reuse” to something related to “open up the system to citizens”.
Regarding the costs for data analysis services, Ornela asks to ESRF and ILL If they have included them or not. According to Jean-François Perrin they could be considered in the table under “off line computing” and it´s how they have done it. He explains that this does not refer to the development of software for data analysis, which is led by the user communities, but it refers to the tools developed in PaNOSC to make the data analysis possible (e.g the VISA instances).
the partners agree to estimate them according to this proposal and to include them here in these tables.   

#### 2. T 7.1 Stakeholder consultation: collection of feedback for questionnaire proposed by Roberto
Not discussed. Postponed to next meeting

#### 3. T 7.4 Report on sustainability: stakeholders consultation with PaNOSC WP leaders: WP4 Sandor Brockhauser and WP8, Florian Gliksohn
Ornela and Sandor present the main outcomes of the interview with Wp 4 leader. The main output of WP 4 will be the portal, that will integrate services from all the other technical WPs. Two hypothesis were considered, for the sustainability: 1) maintenance of the minimal functionality of the Portal, 2) continuous development of the portal.  The requirements for hypothesis 1 were evaluated in 0.5-0.8 PM per facility, to maintain the local instances of the portal. It would also be necessary that one or few partners are identified and duly rewarded for the maintenance of the federated portal. The second hypothesis, further development of new services not required to guarantee the functionality, would represent an advantage for facilities but is not a requirement. This is the terms in which these possibilities will be presented in the sustainability plan. Ornela de Giacomo presents the risks for both the hypothesis and the possible mitigation actions. Thomas Holm asks how will the portal add value to the EOSC portal  and Sandor Brockhauser explains that the portal will also allow users to manage  their own data during the embargo period. At the federation level, Sandor Brockhauser specifies that there will be a single entry (PaNOSC portal) where users will be able to search, use tools and manage their data produced in any facility. Only when the dataset is selected, the user will be taken to the local instance. 

WP8 not discussed, Postponed to next meeting
#### 4. T 7.3 Collection on feedback for business models and next steps
not discussed, Postponed to next meeting

Due to lack of time to start the discussion on the WP 8 interview, stakeholder consultation and  “T 7.3 Collection on feedback for business models and next steps” will be postponed to the next meeting. It´s agreed to have the next meeting next Wednesday 20th of January.

### Actions

